'A great day' — pot smokers rejoice as prohibition ends | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: 'A great day' — pot smokers celebrate end of prohibition Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: 'A great day' — pot smokers celebrate end of prohibition Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News 'A great day' — pot smokers celebrate end of prohibition For some, there was a buzz of joy and happiness in Windsor's streets Wednesday as cannabis lovers lit up openly in public after Canada ended 95 years of pot prohibition. Author of the article: Doug Schmidt • Windsor Star Publishing date: Oct 18, 2018 • October 18, 2018 • 4 minute read • Join the conversation John Clarke smokes marijuana at a legalization party at the Compassion House in the 400 block of Tecumseh Road West on Wednesday, Oct. 17, 2018. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content For some, there was a buzz of joy and happiness in Windsor’s streets Wednesday as cannabis lovers lit up openly in public after Canada ended 95 years of pot prohibition. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “I love it, I think it’s great,” said Hayden Poisson as he breathed in deeply and exhaled thick clouds of aromatic smoke. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. 'A great day' — pot smokers celebrate end of prohibition Back to video “It’s nice to not have to worry about any prosecution,” said the 24-year-old Windsor man, who had spent the past decade looking over his shoulder while doing what had been criminal behaviour before Oct. 17. “For us to just be out here and smoking a joint — and now the law can’t give you heck,” said Brenda Turpin, who, like Poisson, was at a community celebration on Tecumseh Road and rejoicing over the change to Canada’s drug laws. She likes legalization, but said, “just like alcohol, it shouldn’t be around children.” I’m here to celebrate the freedom of cannabis — there’s been prohibition my whole life “This is a good day,” said Pat Copus. While the recreational use of cannabis by adults became legal on Wednesday, the Windsor grandmother said she will continue to only consume marijuana for a medical purpose, to treat her multiple sclerosis. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Now that we have recreational, people won’t have to go through the hurdles we had to, getting medical,” said Copus. She believes many seniors, including those in nursing homes, could have a better quality of life with cannabis. Pat Copus had a special shirt on at a legalization party at the Compassion House in the 400 block of Tecumseh Road West on Wednesday, Oct. 17, 2018. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star It’s government online sales only in Ontario until next April, but there was certainly a lot of pot available and a lot of smoking going on at an all-day celebration hosted on Day 1 by Windsor pot activist Leo Lucier outside his Compassion House storefront. The commercial plaza parking lot in the 400 block of Tecumseh Road West was fenced off and only those 19 and over were permitted entry. Lucier was all smiles as he was surrounded by happy people. A police cruiser was parked nearby, but the officer appeared more concerned with parking issues. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “I’m here to celebrate the freedom of cannabis — there’s been prohibition my whole life,” said Alfred Newman, 64, who said he’s been consuming pot since his teenage years. He credits cannabis for helping him conquer his anxiety and helping him recently beat throat cancer. Newman said he’s not proud of once having to lie under oath before a judge in court after being charged for possession in 1977. But it helped him beat a more severe penalty. Hayden Poisson smokes marijuana at a legalization party at the Compassion House in the 400 block of Tecumseh Road West on Wednesday, Oct. 17, 2018. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star “People’s lives have been ruined,” he said of the decades of cannabis being criminalized. It’s been suggested in Ottawa this week that pardons for past criminal convictions for simple pot possession may soon become easier and cheaper to obtain. But pardons won’t make a difference, and cannabis use remains criminal behaviour, when it comes to crossing the border, according to U.S. federal authorities. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. For the second day in a row, U.S. Border and Customs Protection held a news conference to discuss legalization in Canada and to warn travellers about the potential consequences of admitting to a border officer of ever having simply consumed cannabis. “U.S. laws have not changed,” Christopher Perry, the agency’s director of Michigan field operations, said at the American entrance to the Windsor-Detroit Tunnel. Even if Michigan voters decide in a Nov. 6 referendum to legalize recreational marijuana, those federal laws supersede any state laws, he added. U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials address the media during a press conference on Wednesday, Oct. 17, 2018, regarding the legalization of marijuana in Canada. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Perry wouldn’t comment when asked about Michigan residents returning home after visiting Ontario to get stoned, but Canadian visitors who admit to having ever toked up, even after legalization, could face a lifetime ban from entering the U.S., reporters were told. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Perry said it’s a “case-by-case decision” to be made by border officers, who have “broad discretion to ask questions at primary or secondary (inspection).” Anything from a traveller’s behaviour and mannerisms to an alert border dog could trigger additional questions into possible prior cannabis use, he said. With millions of Canadians already considered to be regular pot users, and millions more anticipated to at least try cannabis before the end of the year, according to Statistics Canada, Perry said U.S. border officials “don’t anticipate any negative impact” on border traffic flows with legalization. Christopher Perry, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Director of Field Operations speaks during a press conference on Wednesday, Oct. 17, 2018, regarding the legalization of marijuana in Canada. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star As of late Wednesday afternoon, a U.S. CBP spokesman said he was unaware of any Canadian travellers being rejected or having turned around (rather than answer any question on cannabis use) at the Windsor-Detroit border that day. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Windsor experienced a Day 1 flood of U.S.-based journalists, with a common question being what kind of pot availability there might be for American visitors. The proposed Michigan minimum age is 21, compared to 19 in Ontario. There are no restrictions for non-resident purchases in Canada (up to 30 grams), but online sales in Ontario does not permit deliveries to foreign addresses. Under introduced provincial legislation (still not the law), adults will be able to consume marijuana wherever cigarettes are permitted. “Windsor has long been more libertine than Detroit,” reads a line in Tuesday’s cover story in the Detroit Free Press on Canada’s legalized pot “roll out,” including a front-page picture of Higher Limits co-owner Jon Liedtke in Windsor. dschmidt@postmedia.com twitter.com/schmidtcity John Clarke smokes marijuana at a legalization party at the Compassion House in the 400 block of Tecumseh Road West on Wednesday. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Justice Fournier smokes marijuana at Wednesday’s legalization party at the Compassion House on Tecumseh Road West. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Marijuana is shown at a legalization party in the 400 block of Tecumseh Road West on Oct. 17, 2018. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers are shown in the secondary inspection area on Wednesday, Oct. 17, 2018. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Leo Lucier, who was organizing a marijuana legalization party in Windsor on Oct. 17, 2018, speaks to a Windsor Police officer near the Compassion House, a medical marijuana business in the 400 block of Tecumseh Road West. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Marijuana is shown at a legalization party at the Compassion House in the 400 block of Tecumseh Road West. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Christopher Perry, U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s Michigan director of field operations, speaks during a press conference on Wednesday, Oct. 17, 2018, regarding the legalization of marijuana in Canada. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Cannabis rolled at Higher Limits Lounge on Ouellette Avenue in downtown Windsor on Oct. 17, 2018. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star Kel Meisner fires up medicinal cannabis at Higher Limits Lounge on Oct. 17, 2018. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star Share this article in your social network Share this Story: 'A great day' — pot smokers celebrate end of prohibition Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK