Amherstburg hires new CAO to lead town out of financial woes | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg hires new CAO to lead town out of financial woes Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg hires new CAO to lead town out of financial woes Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links News Amherstburg hires new CAO to lead town out of financial woes Amherstburg town council announced the hiring of a new chief administrative officer Monday night. Author of the article: Derek Spalding • Windsor Star Publishing date: Sep 08, 2014 • September 8, 2014 • 2 minute read John Miceli, Windsor’s director of parks and facilities, talks about the synthetic ice being installed at Charles Clark Square on Feb. 3, 2014. He has been hired as the new Amherstburg CAO. (Windsor Star files) Article content Amherstburg town council announced the hiring of a new chief administrative officer Monday night. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content John Miceli leaves his position as executive director of parks and facility operations with the City of Windsor and takes over the top job in Amherstburg in October. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg hires new CAO to lead town out of financial woes Back to video Miceli is the sixth CAO with the municipality in the past five years and he’s tasked with leading Amherstburg out of its financial troubles. The town has suffered a series of financial challenges in recent years, including revelations about higher-than-expected debt and gutted reserve accounts. Politicians were also alarmed to discover residents were being charged extra water and waste water rates for more than five years to finance $6.6 million in projects that had never started. To get answers about the fiscal mess, council eventually asked the Ministry of Municipal Affairs to conduct a financial audit, while the Ontario Provincial Police announced they were investigating allegations of criminal wrongdoing related to the town’s finances. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Quite honestly, the biggest and most important thing that I think this town is gonna be looking at is getting its financial house in order and we’re gonna tackle that first,” Miceli said in an interview, recognizing the challenges he’ll face when he starts his new job on Oct. 20. “We’re going to try and stabilize the finances of the municipality going forward and we’ll look at trying to build reserves because I think that’s very important.” Miceli has been with the City of Windsor for 23 years. His last day will be Oct. 17. After sitting in at Amherstburg’s council meeting Monday night, he talked to news reporters about taking on a more senior role. “I think every public servant that works in the public service, their goal and aspiration is to become a chief administrative officer of a municipality,” he said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Miceli’s colleagues in Windsor wished him well. “Congratulations to John, I wish him all the best,” said Windsor’s CAO Helga Reidel. “I think Amherstburg will be a wonderful challenge for John.” Miceli, first hired by Windsor in 1994, was one of the city’s youngest department heads ever when he was promoted at age 41 in 2011 to replace Don Sadler as executive director of parks and facility operations, selected from 47 applicants for the job. “This is a very good career move for John,” said Ward 8 Coun. Bill Marra. He said most people might not know that Miceli has many years experience in finance and in construction. “I think he’ll do great for Amherstburg — it’s a big loss for us,” said Marra. [pn_facebook_like /] Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg hires new CAO to lead town out of financial woes Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK