Amherstburg taxes set to rise by 4.88 per cent | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg taxes set to rise by 4.88 per cent Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg taxes set to rise by 4.88 per cent Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Amherstburg taxes set to rise by 4.88 per cent Author of the article: Julie Kotsis • Windsor Star Publishing date: Nov 20, 2020 • November 20, 2020 • 3 minute read • Join the conversation Amherstburg Mayor Aldo DiCarlo is shown Nov. 13, 2020, at the announcement of the construction start of the town's new public high school. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content Amherstburg ratepayers are facing a 4.88-per-cent tax hike in 2021 that’s partially attributable to a lack of provincial infrastructure funding and growing legislative demands, according to the town’s mayor. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “The first thing people need to focus on is that we did not get our (Ontario Community Infrastructure Fund) funding,” Mayor Aldo DiCarlo said Friday. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg taxes set to rise by 4.88 per cent Back to video DiCarlo said the town had received the annual funding “over a number of years.” “We have not received any confirmation of it for next year,” he said. “We have no idea (why not). That’s all up to the provincial government. We’ve tried to get some answers but at this point we can’t confirm that we will be receiving it.” DiCarlo estimated the town’s share of the anticipated funding — which is provided to small, rural and northern communities to develop and renew infrastructure — at $1.7 million. “Instead of having that money, we’ve had to fund that and other things it might cover through property taxes,” he said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Coincidentally, by the time council was done with the budget, the additional money coming through on the tax levy is approximately $1.7 million.” Council deliberated on the 2021 draft budget over three days this week, whittling down an initially proposed 7.55-per-cent tax hike. If the final budget is approved by council, the 4.88-per-cent increase will translate into $40 of additional taxes for every $100,000 of property assessment. “According to MPAC, our average house value is $250,000 and so the average house increase would be $120,” DiCarlo said. The municipal administration, he added, continues to work through it’s “unique financial circumstances” including an almost inadequately staffed finance department. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Every year more and more comes to light,” he said, adding the town’s most recent service delivery review pointed to “the fact that Amherstburg is understaffed … especially in finance” and the town is mandated under legislation to have certain financial documents, including a properly funded asset management plan, which it still does not have. “Of course, a lot of that is historical and that’s why every year we’ve continued to ask for more bodies and more money because we are still trying to come back from essentially nothing in 2014,” he said. In addition, the budget calls for the hiring of in-house legal counsel and a heritage planner. “(In-house legal counsel is) one of those positions that’s proven to pay for itself in the long run,” DiCarlo said, adding that council felt strongly about the need for a heritage planner. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content CAO John Miceli said the total of the proposed 2021 budget is $47,661,447. Of that, $10,408,144 is attributed to capital works and water and wastewater costs. Miceli said the town, which adopted a pay-as-you-go philosophy, no longer issues debt. “We pay in cash,” he said. “There’s still debt that was previously issued and we’re paying that down. “We’re continuing to make progress.” Miceli said the debt is primarily attributed to the town’s arena and the sewage treatment plant construction. More On This Topic Amherstburg tax rate increase kept below one per cent Amherstburg proposes transformative $50M project Roadwork continues to be a major cost for the town. “We couldn’t possibly fix all the roads that are already past their best-before date,” DiCarlo said, adding the town’s roads-needs study confirmed decades of neglect. “And so all we can really do is go to the plan, find the roads in worst shape at the top of the list or close to the top of the list. “We can only knock them off as reasonably as possible.” jkotsis@postmedia.com twitter.com/KotsisStar Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg taxes set to rise by 4.88 per cent Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK