Amherstburg seeks to buy historic Belle Vue House | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg seeks to buy historic Belle Vue House Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg seeks to buy historic Belle Vue House Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Amherstburg seeks to buy historic Belle Vue House The Town of Amherstburg will seek to purchase the historic Belle Vue House and all its surrounding properties on Dalhousie Street. Author of the article: Mary Caton Publishing date: May 24, 2016 • May 24, 2016 • 2 minute read Paul Hertel (L), Robert and Debra Honor, members of the Belle Vue Cultural Foundation are shown in front of the historic Bellevue House in Amherstburg on Tuesday, May 17, 2016. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content The Town of Amherstburg will seek to purchase the historic Belle Vue House and all its surrounding properties on Dalhousie Street. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Some 35 supporters of the 200-year-old structure were on hand Tuesday night looking for action from council. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg seeks to buy historic Belle Vue House Back to video Robert Honor, a member of the Belle Vue Cultural Foundation, presented council with a detailed history of the house and its significance to the community and Canada at large. A numbered company which owns the house and property recently listed it for sale at $1.95 million through realtor Phil Kasurak. On Tuesday, the Multiple Listing Service placed the asking price at $1.5 million. The historic Belle Vue House in Amherstburg, Ont. is shown on Tuesday, May 17, 2016. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Council went in-camera for over an hour to discuss how an acquisition would proceed. When the regular council session resumed, Mayor Aldo DiCarlo stepped down from the mayor’s chair in order to make a motion from the floor on the matter. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Deputy mayor Bart DiPasquale took over control of the meeting. “I think Belle Vue has deep historical roots with all the past owners and its architecture and now is probably the time — we have a new government and grants available,” DiCarlo said. DiCarlo noted the town’s official plan calls for the municipality to acquire waterfront property when it becomes available. Council voted unanimously to have town CAO John Miceli negotiate with the present owners and develop a business plan. A final decision on acquisition would be subject to council’s approval. The historic Belle Vue House in Amherstburg, Ont. is shown on Tuesday, May 17, 2016. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star DiCarlo said the key moving forward will be the business plan administration can develop to access funds at higher levels of government. “Strategically, the town has to take a position on the property to seek government grants,” DiCarlo said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The house has fallen into disrepair and has been unoccupied since its sale to the numbered company. Belle Vue was designated as a national historic site in 1959 and subsequently received similar designations provincially and municipally. In 2009, the National Trust for Canada placed Belle Vue on its top 10 list of most endangered buildings in Canada “at risk of demolition by neglect.” Recently, the federal government announced it was pumping $20 million over two years into a fund administered by Parks Canada National Historic Sites. According to Natalie Bull, executive director of the National Trust for Canada, Belle Vue would qualify for matching funds to help with restoration costs. mcaton@postmedia.com The historic Belle Vue House in Amherstburg, Ont. is shown on Tuesday, May 17, 2016. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star The historic Belle Vue House in Amherstburg, Ont. is shown on Tuesday, May 17, 2016. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg seeks to buy historic Belle Vue House Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK