Amherstburg budget debate ends abruptly with no decision | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg budget debate ends abruptly with no decision Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg budget debate ends abruptly with no decision Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Amherstburg budget debate ends abruptly with no decision Author of the article: Anne Jarvis • Windsor Star Publishing date: Dec 15, 2020 • December 15, 2020 • 4 minute read • Join the conversation Amherstburg Mayor Aldo DiCarlo is seen in this file photo from July 18, 2019. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Star Article content A contentious and convoluted debate on approving Amherstburg’s 2021 budget ended abruptly without a decision Monday when council voted not to extend the meeting past 10 p.m. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The meeting, which began at 6 p.m., included a lengthy agenda in addition to the final approval of the budget. Councillors had been debating the budget for about 90 minutes when a motion was required to continue after 10 p.m. The six councillors voted 3-3 on the motion. Mayor Aldo DiCarlo broke the tie, voting against the motion. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg budget debate ends abruptly with no decision Back to video He then called for another motion to adjourn the meeting. That motion passed. “I’m sure the clerk will be getting ahold of council on a future meeting date,” he told councillors. But Coun. Michael Prue interjected, saying council should have voted to recess the meeting, not adjourn it, because the meeting hadn’t been completed. The mayor agreed. Then deputy mayor Leo Meloche piped up, arguing that council would need a reconsideration vote to change the motion because councillors had already voted on it. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content DiCarlo disagreed, changed the motion to recess and the meeting finally ended — with no plan on when it, and the budget debate, will continue. We’re playing catch-up on almost everything. Council had already approved a $47.7-million budget in principle during three days of deliberation last month. Of that, $10.4 million is for capital projects, and water and wastewater. The proposed budget means the town’s taxpayers are facing a 4.88 per cent property tax increase — more than four percentage points higher than the inflation rate. “It’s very problematic,” DiCarlo acknowledged before the meeting. “It’s not a rate that anybody wants, especially council.” But the town has a lot of infrastructure that needs replacing and a lot of legislative requirements it must meet, he said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “We’re playing catch-up on almost everything,” he said. The increase translates into $40 in additional tax for every $100,000 of property assessment. The average house in the town is valued at $250,000, according to the Municipal Property Assessment Corporation. Another significant reason for the high increase is that the town has not yet received an expected $1.7 million from the Ontario Community Infrastructure Fund for small, rural and northern communities. But council has since learned that the government is expected to announce the funding in January. The debate Monday was about whether that money, if the town gets it, should be used to address the severe infrastructure deficit, help build up decimated reserves, lower the tax increase or address all three. Or whether council should wait until the government makes its announcement. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Meloche proposed spending some of the money on infrastructure and some to lower the tax increase to 3.49 per cent, an extra $34 on every $100,000 of assessment. Prue wanted the tax increase lowered to that of neighbouring municipalities like LaSalle, which approved a 1.9 per cent increase. He said he has heard from 50 to 80 residents who are concerned about the increase. Council can’t fix all its finances in the middle of a pandemic when people are losing their jobs, he said. “How long are we going to kick it down the road,” Meloche demanded in response. “We have to eventually face the fact. We have a financial problem.” The province brought in Deloitte LLP to review Amherstburg’s financial management in 2014. The scathing report made 41 recommendations and advised “corrective measures” like raising taxes and cutting expenditures. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Councillors Prue and Patricia Simone put forward two different motions for deferrals. “This is not the night to do this,” argued Coun. Peter Courtney. “These are all hypotheticals,” he said, referring to if the town will get the money from the province. Neither motion for a deferral passed. The proposed budget includes a $1.3-million special capital levy to continue building up the town’s capital replacement and reserve funds. The town no longer takes on debt but is still paying off previous debt. “We’re a long way away from getting to the point where our finances are a little more sustainable,” DiCarlo said. Amherstburg also must meet requirements legislated by the Ontario government, including a properly funded asset management plan. But it doesn’t have the staff to do it all. Some of the positions that are needed were cut from the proposed budget. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content More On This Topic Amherstburg taxes set to rise by 4.88 per cent Health unit reports 195 new cases of COVID-19 in Windsor-Essex The biggest cut to the proposed budget is $150,000 to begin offering public transit through an agreement with Transit Windsor to add a route to Amherstburg. Council had budgeted $200,000 for that. But with few riders during the pandemic, council cut the amount to $50,000 as a placeholder for when the pandemic is over and the number of riders increases. “It really didn’t seem prudent,” said DiCarlo. “Ridership would have been almost nothing. But council didn’t want to completely abandon it.” ajarvis@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg budget debate ends abruptly with no decision Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK