Amherstburg council finalizes 2021 budget with 2.03 per cent tax hike | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg council finalizes 2021 budget with 2.03% tax hike Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg council finalizes 2021 budget with 2.03% tax hike Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Amherstburg council finalizes 2021 budget with 2.03% tax hike Author of the article: Dave Battagello • Windsor Star Publishing date: Dec 18, 2020 • December 18, 2020 • 3 minute read • Join the conversation Amherstburg Deputy Mayor Leo Meloche, seen in a 2016 file photo, put forward the budget motion Friday for the 2.03 per cent tax hike for 2021. Photo by Tyler Brownbridge /Windsor Star Article content Amherstburg town council unanimously approved its 2021 budget on Friday resulting in a 2.03 tax rate increase for residents. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The increase equates to roughly an extra $50 in municipal taxes for a home assessed at $250,000. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg council finalizes 2021 budget with 2.03% tax hike Back to video Treasurer Justin Rousseau noted the increase works out to an added $20 for every $100,000 on each home assessment. Council substantially reduced an original proposed budget increase of 7.55 per cent — recommended by administration in large part to catch up with rising costs after minuscule increases dating back to 2014. The current year’s municipal budget in Amherstburg actually “went backwards,” Rousseau said, noting it worked out to a decrease of about 1.6 per cent for residents. Amherstburg’s 2021 budget includes spending money at the former Duffy’s restaurant site, acquired by the town and now fenced off, to create public access with pathways that will extend to King’s Navy Yard Park. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star But given the ongoing financial struggles for so many people out of work due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdowns, several councillors called for a tax increase no higher than the current inflation rate of about two per cent. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “The town and so many people are hurting because of COVID,” said Coun. Michael Prue. “Some have lost jobs or income and are in precarious situations. They are asking us to limit the amount we are spending. “We have to choose whether it’s better to build a road or allow people sufficient funds to make their life a little easier. I always believe people come first.” We have to deal with a lot of our issues. Deputy Mayor Leo Meloche said that despite ongoing financial struggles of many residents, council should not go any lower on spending in its 2021 budget and should keep a long-term view in mind. “We have to consider residents and COVID challenges, but also have to keep in mind challenges that will be passed on to our children or grandchildren,” he said. “It’s not in our best interest to just look at this short-term. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Last year, we didn’t (collect) as much as we should have. Taxpayers received that benefit and now want more this year, so when does it stop? We have to deal with a lot of our issues.” Amherstburg’s 2021 budget includes improvements to at Ranta Park, shown on Friday, December 18, 2020. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Meloche put forward the budget motion for the 2.03 per cent tax hike and it was supported by Coun. Don McArthur. “Last year was a mistake,” McArthur said. “We don’t want to make that mistake again. You need the cost of living increase or we will be further behind the eight ball than other municipalities. The reality is people drive on roads. If you have too many potholes that affects quality of life and they may move somewhere else.” He noted the two per cent budget increase still allows for completion next year of many long-awaited projects to improve town infrastructure. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content They include spending $300,000 at the former Duffy’s restaurant site to create public access with pathways that will extend to King’s Navy Yard Park, plus creation of the town’s first dog park and kayak launch at Ranta Park. Also included are a new trail system at Golfview subdivision, building a new baseball diamond at the Libro Centre, plus relocating a skate park. Amherstburg will also hire a solicitor, manager of finance and heritage planner in the coming year following a recent service delivery review which illustrated how the town has 15 per cent less full-time administrative staff than other peer municipalities. More On This Topic Amherstburg budget debate ends abruptly with no decision Amherstburg taxes set to rise by 4.88 per cent The final budget includes operating expenses of $46.5 million and capital spending of $10.6 million. Rousseau noted that the town’s reserve funds at end of 2021 under the new budget will be $17.4 million. dbattagello@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg council finalizes 2021 budget with 2.03% tax hike Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK