Amherstburg proposes transformative $50M project | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg proposes transformative $50M project Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg proposes transformative $50M project Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Amherstburg proposes transformative $50M project Author of the article: Anne Jarvis • Windsor Star Publishing date: Oct 29, 2019 • October 29, 2019 • 3 minute read • Join the conversation Belle Vue House in Amherstburg is part of an ambitious $50 million three-part redevelopment plan. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Star Article content Amherstburg is proposing an ambitious and transformative $50-million project for the former Duffy’s Motor Inn and Tavern land, Belle Vue and the Libro Centre Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Just imagine what this town would be — not just for tourists, for us,” Coun. Don McArthur said Monday. “I think it’s fantastic.” We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg proposes transformative $50M project Back to video The town’s council voted Monday to apply for grants from the federal and provincial governments for the project under the Investing in Canada Infrastructure Program. If approved, the federal government would pay 40 per cent of the cost, the provincial government 33 per cent and the town 26.67 per cent or $13.3 million. The most costly part of the project would be $25.29 million to create a “centre of excellence” at the Libro Centre. That project would include a fully accessible indoor 25-metre pool, a “hub” of three baseball diamonds, plus soccer pitches, more pickle ball courts, a fully accessible playground, a Big Creek trail and lookout, pavilion with change rooms and event plaza. A skateboard park would also be relocated there. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content It would be stupid not to put our town forward The Big Creek trail “would be taking advantage of one of our most prized amenities,” said CAO John Miceli, who presented the plan to council. “We’re sitting on one of the most underutilised green spaces in the province.” The trail would be, he promised, “like no other in this region.” The plan would also include outdoor skating. The Libro Centre in Amherstburg is part of an ambitious $50 million development in the town. Photo by Jason Kryk /Windsor Star The Libro Centre is surrounded by almost 80 acres — “a tremendous amount,” Miceli said — of undeveloped land. The Waterfront Civic Plaza would cost $11.5 million and include a civic square and extended Kings Navy Yard Park, amphitheatre, accessible multi-use pier for everything from fishing to tall ships, marina and accessible walking path with a bench and water and fire feature. Belle Vue Gardens and Conservatory, to be created around the historic house that the town bought in 2016, would cost $10.34 million and include botanical gardens and a Carolinian arboretum, greenhouses, the Historical Walking Mile connecting to Fort Malden, a pavilion and community venue. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content A plan called The Big Connection, connecting the three sites, would cost another $2.87 million and include improvements to the Simcoe Road multi-use trail, making the road a “complete street” and prioritizing people over vehicles, and development of “community connectors” to link existing hubs or areas of interest as well as developing links among neighbourhoods. The project would unfold over seven years. Residents have told the town they want more access to the Detroit River and more waterfront amenities and more outdoor recreation facilities, Miceli said. King’s Navy Yard park on Dalhousie Street in Amherstburg. It is part of an ambitious new $50 million three-part redevelopment plan. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /NIck Brancaccio The project would check off 48 of the 77 recommendations in the parks master plan, 32 of which are considered high priority, Miceli said. “We’re talking about 27-cent dollars to address our wish list,” he said. “Without senior governments, this would be very, very difficult. This is an opportunity.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The town’s share would come from long-term debt, reserves and tax levies. The town could also fundraise, sell other assets or search for “efficiencies,” Miceli said. Deputy Mayor Leo Meloche warned about “hidden costs” such as operating costs and maintenance and repair costs that come with such ambitious projects. More On This Topic Belle Vue house desperate for donors willing to wait for tax receipts Latest concept drawings for Duffy's waterfront site But council agreed it should at least apply for the senior government money. “It would be stupid not to put our town forward,” said Coun. Peter Courtney. “One overriding comment I heard was get ‘er done,” McArthur said of the Duffy’s property, which the town bought two years ago. “This is a warranted expense,” one resident told council. “I hope the town is successful with this application.” ajarvis@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg proposes transformative $50M project Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK