Amherstburg financial review includes 41 recommendations (With video) | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg financial review includes 41 recommendations (With video) Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg financial review includes 41 recommendations (With video) Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links News Amherstburg financial review includes 41 recommendations (With video) Amherstburg councillors and the public were told they'll have to wait until Tuesday to see the 41 recommendations made in the financial services management practices review by Deloitte LLP. Author of the article: Julie Kotsis • Windsor Star Publishing date: Aug 11, 2014 • August 11, 2014 • 2 minute read Aneesa Ruffudeen, left, senior manager at Deloitte, James Lanoue, a partner with Deloitte, and Ginette Brindle, regional director, Ontario Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing, give their financial review findings before Amherstburg Town Council, Monday, August 11, 2014. (DAX MELMER/The Windsor Star) Article content Amherstburg councillors and the public were told they’ll have to wait until Tuesday to see the 41 recommendations made in the financial services management practices review by Deloitte LLP. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Mayor Wayne Hurst was handed a copy of the report Monday during a presentation by James Lanoue, a partner with Deloitte, along with representatives from Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg financial review includes 41 recommendations (With video) Back to video CAO Mike Phipps said councillors will receive a copy of the report Tuesday at 10 a.m. but it will not be available to the public until noon when it will be posted on the town’s website. Coun. Bob Pillon was the only council member to question the unavailability of the report. “We don’t have a copy of it in front of us so we can discuss it intelligently,” Pillon said. “I’m very upset we don’t have a copy. I don’t know why the ministry wouldn’t send down enough copies for every councillor here. I’m upset at that and that’s not right.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Lanoue gave council “an executive summary” of the report that looked at financial practises from 2009 to June 2014. He said Deloitte was not able to get “some records” and that they are highlighted in the report along with 41 opportunities for improvement. As part of the summary, Lanoue said the town should develop a plan to address resource shortages, focus on debt repayment and limit capital expendaitures. He added council needs to develop cost reduction initiatives, increase revenue generation — including the sale of non-core assets — and develop a long-term finanicial plan. In response to a query by Coun. Bart DiPasquale, MMAH regional director Ginette Brindle said the ministry will “monitor council” as it implements the recommendations. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Coun. Diane Pouget wanted to set a date for a meeting to allow the public to comment on the report but withdrew her motion after several councillors said it would take time to digest the report. “We’re four weeks ahead of where we were supposed to have the report,” Coun. Carolyn Davies said. “Deloitte has already said this is not a crisis … I don’t think we have to race into quick answers to make it look good for the paper or anyone else.” Pouget said she would ask for a public meeting once council was able to meet and discuss the report with representatives from Deloitte. Hurst said that first meeting with Deloitte would not be public. But afterward outside council chambers when asked by resident Rick Fryer if the meeting should be public, Brindle said yes. “I would suggest it would be an open meeting, a public meeting,” Brindle said. jkotsis@windsorstar.com Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Toggle full screen mode Previous Gallery Image A full crowd listen to discussion of the financial review findings given by Deloitte at Amherstburg Town Council, Monday, August 11, 2014. (DAX MELMER/The Windsor Star) Councillor John Sutton speaks during discussion of the financial review findings given by Deloitte at Town Council, Monday, August 11, 2014. (DAX MELMER/The Windsor Star) Amherstburg deputy mayor, Ron Sutherland, speaks at Town Council, on August 11, 2014. (DAX MELMER/The Windsor Star) A full crowd listen to discussion of the financial review findings given by Deloitte at Amherstburg Town Council, Monday, August 11, 2014. (DAX MELMER/The Windsor Star) Mike Phipps, chief administrative officer for the Town of Amherstburg, gives councillor Diane Pouget an expressive look during discussions in this August 2014 file photo. (DAX MELMER/The Windsor Star) Aneesa Ruffudeen, left, senior manager at Deloitte, James Lanoue, a partner with Deloitte, and Ginette Brindle, regional director, Ontario Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing, give their financial review findings before Amherstburg Town Council, Monday, August 11, 2014. (DAX MELMER/The Windsor Star) James Lanoue, centre, a partner with Deloitte, is flanked by his colleague, Aneesa Ruffudeen, left, senior manager at Deloitte, and Ginette Brindle, regional director, Ontario Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing, as they give their financial review findings before Amherstburg Town Council, Monday, August 11, 2014. Next Gallery Image Toggle gallery captions View All 7 Photos 1 of 7 All 7 Photos for Gallery Function Not Available Full Screen is not supported on this browser version. You may use a different browser or device to view this in full screen. OK [pn_facebook_like /] Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg financial review includes 41 recommendations (With video) Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK