Amherstburg appoints second acting CAO in a week | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg appoints second acting CAO in a week Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg appoints second acting CAO in a week Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Amherstburg appoints second acting CAO in a week Author of the article: Trevor Wilhelm Publishing date: Aug 17, 2021 • August 17, 2021 • 2 minute read • Join the conversation Amherstburg CAO John Miceli, seen in this file photo from April 2019, has seen two people fill in at his position since his unexplained removal last week. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Star Article content Amherstburg has appointed its second acting CAO in a week as wild rumours and unanswered questions continue to mount over the ejection of three high-ranking town staff. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Town lawyer Susan Hirota was appointed Amherstburg’s acting CAO after three staff were told to leave town property on Aug. 9. On Tuesday, the Town of Kingsville announced Hirota will be moving to their organization as the director of Legal and Clerk Services. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg appoints second acting CAO in a week Back to video Hirota, previously the City of Windsor’s senior legal counsel for 15 years, joined Amherstburg as town solicitor on July 5. She departs Aug. 29. She said Tuesday her latest job switch “is not related to the current situation” in Amherstburg. “It was an opportunity that was too good to turn down,” Hirota said of Kingsville’s job offer. The Star has learned an in-camera Amherstburg council meeting held Monday night was called to address the situation involving the removal of three staff members. But Amherstburg officials were tight-lipped Tuesday about what happened in the meeting. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content They still refuse to reveal the identities of the staff members told to leave town hall last week in the presence of Windsor police. While the Star has verified one of the individuals was CAO John Miceli, the town will not confirm that despite officially handing over his duties to someone else. The town also won’t reveal why the three were told to leave town property or if they have been fired, suspended or otherwise. Mayor Aldo DiCarlo said last week that no one was arrested. Amherstburg Mayor Aldo DiCarlo speaks to reporters following an Essex County Council meeting at the Essex County Civic Centre on Wednesday, July 17, 2019. DiCarlo is not commenting on why three town staffers, including CAO John Miceli, have been removed. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor He said Tuesday the town needs to “work through some processes” before making a public statement about what happened. That statement should come in a couple days, he said. “We have obligations regarding timelines when addressing human resources matters,” said DiCarlo. “So it would be inappropriate for me to provide information or details until others were informed.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Several other Amherstburg councillors have either not responded to requests for information or declined comment. DiCarlo did say Tuesday that Hirota’s departure after just six weeks on the job was unexpected. “She was only with the town for a short period of time,” he said. “She did make me aware of the reasons she was going to Kingsville but I think you’d have to talk to her about those details.” Antonietta Giofu, Amhersturg’s director of Infrastructure Services, will take over as acting CAO on Aug. 30. “She has filled in in the past as interim CAO,” said Di Carlo. “So it should be a good fit.” twilhelm@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg appoints second acting CAO in a week Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK