Amherstburg reverses course, agrees to buy historic Belle Vue | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg changes course, agrees to buy historic Belle Vue Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg changes course, agrees to buy historic Belle Vue Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Amherstburg changes course, agrees to buy historic Belle Vue Amherstburg reverses course, agrees to buy historic Belle Vue Author of the article: Mary Caton Publishing date: Sep 27, 2016 • September 27, 2016 • 4 minute read Paul Hertel, left, Robert and Debra Honor, members of the Belle Vue Cultural Foundation, are shown in front of the historic Belle Vue House in Amherstburg on Tuesday, May 17, 2016. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content The past few months have been an emotional roller-coaster for those in the Amherstburg community with a doggish loyalty to the historic Belle Vue house. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content That fierce dedication was rewarded Monday when the group was part of a three-pronged delegation strike that helped convince council to reverse course and purchase the 8.6-acre property for $1.1 million and preserve it for future generations. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg changes course, agrees to buy historic Belle Vue Back to video Mayor Aldo DiCarlo cast the deciding vote in a 3-2 count. Deputy Mayor Bart DiPasquale and councillor Joan Courtney voted with DiCarlo while councillors Leo Meloche and Rick Fryer were against. Councillors Jason Lavigne and Diane Pouget declared a conflict of interest. “I’m still pinching myself this morning,” said Paul Hertel, who serves as president of the Belle Vue Cultural Foundation. “It’s a lot of work to get something going and get something seriously reconsidered. It’s a wonderful tribute to the people in town who supported our cause.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Back in May, hope flickered for foundation members when DiCarlo stepped down from his chair at a council meeting in order to put forward a motion from the floor. He was asking for council’s support in having CAO John Miceli negotiate a deal to purchase the nationally designated historical site and develop a business plan. The vote was unanimous in its support. Two weeks ago, supporters hit a low ebb when council’s support vanished in a vote to abandon purchase plans for Belle Vue and instead lend its support to acquiring Duffy’s Tavern and Motor Inn. Rather than wave a white flag, Hertel rallied the troops. He called an emergency meeting of the foundation. He filed a Freedom of Information request so the public at large could see the favourable terms of the agreement Miceli had hammered out. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Hertel enlisted the help of several savvy residents in Michael Prue and Brad Robitaille. Prue retired to the Amherstburg area after a long political career that included stints as the mayor of East York, as a Toronto city councillor and 13 years as a Member of Provincial Parliament. Robitaille helped found the law firm of Greg Monforton &amp; Partners. A former student of Hertel’s, Robitaille tried to buy the Belle Vue house privately seven years ago. He had also heard all about its historical significance years before when he served on the board of directors of the Ontario Heritage Foundation, now the Ontario Heritage Trust. Robitaille in turn called on Scott Weir, a Toronto heritage architect. Weir had assessed the place seven years ago for Robitaille. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “I called him last Friday and he dropped everything,” Robitaille said of Weir. “We worked all weekend on the presentation.” Weir did another walk through and told council that despite years of neglect, the place is still remarkably solid. “It’s an incredible structure,” Robitaille said. “The architecture is so beautiful. I decided maybe I could help council understand the magnitude of this decision.” Prue’s message was clear. “Not to be worried about where the money (for future redevelopment) was going to come from,” he said. “Their role was to purchase the property.” Under terms of the agreement, the vendor will hold the mortgage interest free for five years. So the town will make annual payments of $200,000. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Courtney was the swing vote. “What happened a couple of weeks ago swayed me,” she said Tuesday. “Buying Duffy’s was the right thing to do. I heard that from the residents but there was still Belle Vue and a large amount of people really wanted us to save that. “I really want to maintain Amherstburg’s reputation as a heritage town, a cultural town,” Courtney said.”You have to have the property first and then you can make a list of what needs to be done. Timing is everything and this was the right time to do it. “We had to jump on it.” DiCarlo said he, too, heard from many residents who wanted council to save the sprawling mansion which has languished on the National Trust of Canada’s top 10 list of most endangered buildings in Canada since 2009. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “If nothing else, I have said I will listen to the residents and the majority wanted this. It was clear, it really was. To me it was a simple decision,” DiCarlo said. DiCarlo and Hertel both praised Courtney’s decision. “It takes some political fortitude to reconsider,” Hertel said. DiCarlo also tipped his cap to the family ownership of both Belle Vue and Duffy’s and their respective decisions to sell to the town. “Both those owners could have got more money for those properties,” DiCarlo said. “They deserve some credit for taking a lower bid from the town.” The Ofner family is behind the numbered company listed as owning Belle Vue while the Vucinic family owned and ran Duffy’s. Duffy’s Tavern closed in 2013 while the Belle Vue house has been empty since 2003. “In Amherstburg, miracles are always possible,” Hertel said. “It’s a great town.” mcaton@postmedia.com twitter.com/winstarcaton Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg changes course, agrees to buy historic Belle Vue Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK