Anxiety contributing to less sex for young adults | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Anxiety contributing to less sex for young adults Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Anxiety contributing to less sex for young adults Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links World News National Anxiety contributing to less sex for young adults In the last dozen years, the number of young adults forgoing sex has more than doubled Author of the article: Liz Braun Publishing date: Nov 28, 2021 • 9 hours ago • 3 minute read • Join the conversation About 60 percent of adults under age 35 live without a partner, and a third in that age range still live at home. Photo by file photo /Getty Images Article content Why aren’t young people having sex? Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content It’s not just COVID, although that hasn’t helped — during lockdown, health fears became a major romance killer for almost everyone. All the extra work, money and housing stresses fuelled by the pandemic were not conducive to feeling frisky either. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Anxiety contributing to less sex for young adults Back to video In what’s being called the current “sex recession”, young people under 35 have been particularly badly affected. The Institute for Family Studies says that in the last dozen years, the number of young adults forgoing sex has more than doubled, going from 8 percent to 21 percent between 2008 and 2021. The Daily Mail reports that more women than ever aged 18 to 35 say they did not have any sexual encounters in the past year. (Sexual abstinence has increased dramatically among the very religious, from 20% in 2008 to almost 60% in 2021, according to Christianity Today , and that has affected these numbers.) Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Overall, according to statistics, everyone is having less sex. But age cohort counts: Millennials have less sex than both their parents and grandparents did at the same age. All the pieces are in place to suggest that everyone should be shagging more now than ever before: birth control is available, dating apps abound, porn is available for all and society will tolerate just about anything, barring pedophilia and the usual taboos of incest and bestiality. As Kate Julian writes in The Atlantic , “In the space of a generation, sex has gone from something most high-school students have experienced to something most haven’t. (And no, they aren’t having oral sex instead. That rate hasn’t changed much.)” Part of the problem is lower rates of relationship formation. Fewer people are getting married, and those who do marry tend to marry later. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content About 60 percent of adults under age 35 live without a partner, and a third in that age range still live at home. Some young people have swapped real life for digital life. Why don’t young people want to pursue relationships? Too much porn? Too many fancy sex toys? Too much casual sex? Too much screen time? Or maybe not enough life experience. Canadian sex therapist Alexandra Agar sees many young clients, particularly women, who struggle with their sex lives, and that’s worrying. “The link between sex and happiness is well known. Your overall health is linked to your libido.” Agar, who practises in Los Angeles, said in a recent interview that she sees a lot of anxiety and depression in young adults. Many of the young women she sees have stress that’s exacerbated by the widespread use of dating apps. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “That’s what everyone is doing now. There’s so much competition, so much saturation. The chance for a relationship just isn’t there. Some report they never got to a second date or maybe they did, but after that they were ghosted — what chance do they have of having sex with anyone?” The apps are more like a game than a dating aid, with new faces always available. “Dating apps are not a substitute for meeting someone authentically.” There are also a lot of self-esteem and confidence issues because of social media, Agar said, with Instagram models held up as the norm. And the younger generation has poor social skills. “They’ve grown up with a phone in one hand and a tablet in the other. And playing video games their whole lives. They are so much less socialized than previous generations.” This has left them at a disadvantage and fuelled social anxiety; “with the pandemic on top of that, some say they can’t even remember how to socialize, how to date. They ask me things such as, ‘Who pays for dinner?’ and ‘What do I do if I don’t like him?’ “They do not have the same social skills we developed,” she said, adding that it’s disconcerting how many college students are already seeing a sex therapist. “They are so much more anxious than we were.” Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Anxiety contributing to less sex for young adults Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK