Belle Vue house desperate for donors willing to wait for tax receipts | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Belle Vue house desperate for donors willing to wait for tax receipts Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Belle Vue house desperate for donors willing to wait for tax receipts Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Belle Vue house desperate for donors willing to wait for tax receipts Author of the article: Taylor Campbell Publishing date: Sep 23, 2019 • September 23, 2019 • 3 minute read • Join the conversation The group Belle Vue Conservancy presented an update on the efforts to fundraise for the 200-year-old building's restoration before Amherstburg's regular town council on Monday, September 23, 2019. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Star Article content Generosity dried up for Amherstburg’s decrepit 200-year-old symbol of postwar positivity when its fundraising body stopped issuing tax receipts. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content For four months, Belle Vue Conservancy president Shirley Curson-Prue has been forced to tell donors they would not reap tax benefits this year for contributions to the town-owned restoration project. That’s because the Amherstburg Community Foundation’s new board of directors in June decided to no longer issue tax receipts on behalf of the organization. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Belle Vue house desperate for donors willing to wait for tax receipts Back to video “It’s been very embarrassing to have to explain this to some of our major donors,” Curson-Prue told Amherstburg town council Monday night. “The total we have received is considerably less than usual — many donors are unable to wait until we can issue tax receipts to them. “This changed everything,” she added. “We were not initially incorporated since we had an agreement with the Town of Amherstburg that we would not need this status.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Belle Vue Conservancy immediately applied for a registered charity number to give it fundraising autonomy, Curson-Prue said. In July, it received incorporation status from the province, but it must wait months for tax status from the Canada Revenue Agency. The group cannot collect donations online, as it had been doing, nor can it issue tax receipts to donors. With funds raised in 2017 and 2018, the group was able to replace the designated heritage building’s roof and eaves at a cost of more than $300,000. Because of its recent setback, the group may not have the windows restored by its initial goal date of 2021. Shirley Curson-Prue, president of the Belle Vue Conservancy, holding an print version of a painting of Belle Vue house in winter (by Peter Rindlisbacher). Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Star In attempt to remedy the situation, councillors passed a motion Monday to have the Town of Amherstburg facilitate the management of conservancy donations until the organization receives its registered charity number. The town would hold those funds in a separate account until the organization requests council release them. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Council would need to approve the release of funds, even though they would have been donated for the Belle Vue Conservancy to use. “Anyone can make a donation to the town and get a tax receipt from the town,” said John Miceli, Amherstburg’s chief administrative officer. “At the end of the day, if it’s donated for a segregated purpose to the town, so for the windows, then the town would be foolish not to release it back to them to pay for the windows,” Miceli added. If the organization wants the money for use on something other than the windows, “that’s where it might get a little tricky,” Miceli said. “Ultimately, that’s what we have to do — make sure we protect the intent of what the money was donated for.” To replace the windows to heritage standards will cost an estimated $414,000. The organization, through the town, has applied for $3.5 million in funding from the Federal Development Program, but that money would go towards fixing the house’s main floor and upstairs centre block. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The group Belle Vue Conservancy presented an update on the efforts to fundraise for the 200-year-old building’s restoration before Amherstburg’s regular town council on Monday, September 23, 2019. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Star “Frankly, we’ve had a couple of people who have asked for their money back, because they want the tax receipt for this year, and I can’t say I’m surprised by that,” Curson-Prue said. “That’s just simply a reality for us.” The town purchased Belle Vue in 2016. The house, the construction of which began in 1816, had been unoccupied for the 15 years and slipping further into disrepair before the town purchased it. In May, the town announced it was looking for a partner or major sponsor to build a conference and event centre on the property behind the building. Miceli on Monday said the town hadn’t found anybody yet. “We’re looking at different approaches, so I’ll be reporting back to council on that,” Miceli said. “It’s a big undertaking.” Related Amherstburg seeks to buy historic Belle Vue House Amherstburg changes course, agrees to buy historic Belle Vue Belle Vue House video released Heritage Canada had designated Belle Vue as one of the top 10 heritage structures in Canada in danger of demolition by neglect. The building was once a private home, but also served as a convalescent hospital for First World War veterans. It also housed St. Nicholas Ukrainian Catholic Church. It stands as one of only two buildings in Canada designated for Palladian style architecture. tcampbell@postmedia.com twitter.com/wstarcampbell Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Belle Vue house desperate for donors willing to wait for tax receipts Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK