Bill outlawing conversion therapy for adults to be tabled Monday | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Bill outlawing conversion therapy for adults to be tabled Monday Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Bill outlawing conversion therapy for adults to be tabled Monday Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links News Bill outlawing conversion therapy for adults to be tabled Monday The original bill only outlawed conversion therapy if adults did not consent to it, though it banned it for children Author of the article: The Canadian Press Publishing date: Nov 28, 2021 • 2 hours ago • 3 minute read • Join the conversation Canada's Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada David Lametti (pictured) is co-introducing the bill with and Gender Equality and Youth Minister Marci Ien. REUTERS/Blair Gable Photo by BLAIR GABLE /REUTERS Article content The federal government is expected to reintroduce a bill that would ban conversion therapy on Monday in a move that would both fulfill an election campaign promise and potentially close loopholes that emerged the last time such legislation came before Parliament. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The bill, if passed, would outlaw practices that seek to change someone’s sexual orientation or gender identity. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Bill outlawing conversion therapy for adults to be tabled Monday Back to video The pending bill — a beefed-up version of one that died on the order paper when Parliament was dissolved ahead of the September election — would ban the discredited practice both for children and adults. The previous incarnation of the bill prohibited conversion therapy outright for children, but only made it a criminal offence to force adults to undergo conversion therapy without their consent. Conversion therapy practices have historically included electric-shock therapy, as well as intensive sessions to repress non-heterosexual attraction and change people’s sexual orientation. More On This Topic Adam Zivo: Trudeau's cynical politics is why conversion therapy is still legal in Canada Liberals set to bring in tougher version of bill to ban conversion therapy Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The government has said outlawing conversion therapy is a priority, pledging to retable a bill on the issue within the first hundred days of its new mandate, which began when cabinet ministers were sworn in last month. The latest version is expected to be introduced by Justice Minister David Lametti and Gender Equality and Youth Minister Marci Ien. The previous bill, known as C-6, won backing from most MPs but also elicited strong opposition from more than half of the Conservative caucus. Opponents criticized the bill, which was heavily amended in Parliament, on the grounds that consent to a practice which causes harm is invalid. Young people who have “consented” to conversion therapy do not understand what they are getting into, and often do so under duress from family or faith leaders, according to advocacy group No Conversion Canada. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Our indication is that this is going to be a significantly stronger bill than last time,” said spokesman Nicholas Schiavo. “The fact that it is being introduced so early in the session is very good news.” The new bill is likely to be backed by the NDP, the Bloc Quebecois, the Green Party, Conservative Leader Erin O’Toole and many of his party members. But more than half of the Conservative caucus opposed the government’s previous attempt to crack down on the discredited practice. Schiavo believes more Tories will be on board with the bill this time around. Gemma Hickey, who is non-binary, was subjected to “faith-based” conversion therapy as a teenager in St. John’s. Hickey consulted a doctor after becoming attracted to a girl in high school. The family doctor referred them to a therapist who told them that homosexuality was not natural and “against God.” The experience drove Hickey to a suicide attempt, overdosing on pills and alcohol. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content It is about time Hickey said they were pleased the government was making a ban a priority, saying such a move “has been a long time coming.” “It is about time this is passed,” Hickey said. “I support a complete ban as this practice is fundamentally homophobic and transphobic and it has no place in Canada, or anywhere else.” The LGBTQ campaigner said they had been “ working towards this for almost 30 years. “Young people dealing with sexuality and gender identity are very vulnerable and this type of so-called therapy is harmful to vulnerable youth,” they added. Conversion therapy is banned in several countries around the world, including Malta and Germany. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Bill outlawing conversion therapy for adults to be tabled Monday Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK