Canadian auto companies implement mandatory vaccination policy for workers | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Canadian auto companies implement mandatory vaccination policy for workers Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Canadian auto companies implement mandatory vaccination policy for workers Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Canadian auto companies implement mandatory vaccination policy for workers Author of the article: Dave Battagello Publishing date: Oct 15, 2021 • October 15, 2021 • 3 minute read • 117 Comments A worker is shown at the Stellantis Windsor Assembly Plant on Thursday, October 14, 2021. Canada's automakers have decided on a mandatory vaccination policy across the board. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content Nearly 4,500 workers at Windsor Assembly Plant under Stellantis, plus nearly 1,500 more with the city’s two Ford engine assembly plants will have until mid-December to receive a COVID-19 vaccination or face likely termination. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Major automakers on Thursday in tandem released new mandatory vaccination policies for their employees across Canada calling upon compliance by Dec. 17. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Canadian auto companies implement mandatory vaccination policy for workers Back to video “Our expectation is that everyone be fully vaccinated by Dec. 17,” said Lou Ann Gosselin, spokeswoman for Stellantis which overall has nearly 10,000 Canadian employees. “Consequences for non-compliance can be severe, including and not limited to termination of employment.” I’m not going to create false hope when it doesn’t exist Individual employees “might qualify for medical or religious exemptions,” but their situation will be closely examined by the company on a “case-by-case basis,” she said. Windsor Assembly Plant is the city’s largest private corporate employer. A worker is shown at the Stellantis Windsor Assembly Plant on Thursday, October 14, 2021. Canada’s automakers have decided on a mandatory vaccination policy across the board. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Gosselin indicated the policy is a non-factor for a “large majority” of employees at the plant who are already fully vaccinated, although she did not have an exact percentage. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content With the new policy in place, Stellantis will step up its education and training efforts surrounding benefits of vaccination and attempt to address any employee concerns, Gosselin said. “We are communicating with employees and providing training or literature if people want to learn more about the vaccines,” Gosselin said. Unifor National President Jerry Dias on Thursday said he was not consulted by the auto companies, but simply given notice the new vaccination policy was coming. It has been thoroughly reviewed by the union’s lawyers who indicated there is no recourse available for any employee who chooses not to comply and ends up losing their job, he said. “The bottom line is I’m not going to mislead people and say you’re going to be fine,” Dias said. “I’m going to tell people make your choice. I’m going to be honest with people and say if you refuse to be vaccinated under company policy you are putting your job in peril. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “I’m not going to create false hope when it doesn’t exist.” A security guard checks on an outgoing minivan at the Stellantis Windsor Assembly Plant on Thursday, October 14, 2021. Canada’s automakers have decided on a mandatory vaccination policy across the board. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star He guessed somewhere around 90 per cent of Unifor members working in auto plants impacted by the policy have already been vaccinated. GM Canada is among those introducing mandatory vaccination for auto workers by mid-December, although no longer has any employees in the Windsor area. “It’s not for me to say whether this is right or wrong,” Dias said. “What our lawyers are telling us is the policy will be upheld legally so our members need to know that.” But Unifor Local 444 President Dave Cassidy seemed to contradict Dias to some degree afterwards on Thursday. He did not return messages from the Star, but posted both an online video and statement on Twitter indicating it was the “most divisive issue” he has dealt with in a decade and that he may be open to sticking up for any worker who may not comply with the vaccination policy. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “I am no lawyer, I am no doctor, I am the president of this local and our executives, committees and reps of this local will be representing EVERYBODY on this issue,” he posted on Twitter. Truck drivers are shown at the Stellantis Windsor Assembly Plant on Thursday, October 14, 2021. Canada’s automakers have decided on a mandatory vaccination policy across the board. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star He added in the video how there was already a “lot of anxiety” among auto plant employees following the policy announcement with some already messaging him they were “packing it in” if forced to be vaccinated. Cassidy suggested the local would go through the grievance process on behalf of any employee that gets fired. “It hasn’t been tested and we will go through the process,” he said. “If an arbitrator rules against this, be aware you will stay terminated.” More On This Topic Mandatory vaccination coming for all Windsor police employees City holding special meeting Thursday to address mandatory vaccinations for staff Health unit announces heightened vaccine mandate for sport, recreation facilities Meanwhile, Dias indicated 425 workers employed as Unifor administrative staff connected with its national headquarters are facing the same policy and must be fully vaccinated before a planned full return to office work scheduled to start in November. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “People want to go to work feeling safe,” Dias said. “People feel uncomfortable working next to someone unvaccinated. You have a vocal minority, but an overwhelming majority (who support mandatory vaccination). If you are unvaccinated you won’t be in the (Unifor) workplace. “I’m not going to lie and say the union will fight tooth and nail for you if you get fired. People have their own decision to make with that in mind. It’s an individual decision, but there are consequences.” To date, no automotive parts or supply companies in the Windsor area with Unifor members as employees have indicated they intend to follow suit with mandatory vaccination policies that he was aware of — although that may also soon occur, Dias said. dbattagello@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Canadian auto companies implement mandatory vaccination policy for workers Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK