City council approves mandatory vaccine policy for municipal employees | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Windsor city council approves new mandatory vaccine policy for municipal employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Windsor city council approves new mandatory vaccine policy for municipal employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Windsor city council approves new mandatory vaccine policy for municipal employees Author of the article: Trevor Wilhelm Publishing date: Sep 17, 2021 • September 17, 2021 • 3 minute read • 188 Comments In this file photo Nurse Kevin Sagun with Humber River Hospital draws a dose of the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine before administering it at a LOFT community housing complex in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, March 26, 2021. Photo by COLE BURSTON /AFP via Getty Images Article content Windsor city council approved a controversial mandatory vaccine policy for all municipal workers Thursday night, despite opposition from a string of employee representatives. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “We’re still in crisis mode,” Ward 1 Coun. Fred Francis said during a special meeting called to address the issue. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Windsor city council approves new mandatory vaccine policy for municipal employees Back to video “Nobody wants to do this. But this is something we have to do.” City of Windsor employees have until Nov. 15 to either provide proof that they are fully vaccinated or obtain a valid accommodation under human rights legislation. Employees who fail to fulfil one of those requirements will be placed on unpaid leave. The new rules also apply to contractors and volunteers. Human resources head Vincenza Mihalo told council that 1,200 employees have responded to a survey asking about vaccination status, with 83 per cent stating they are fully vaccinated. A policy report from city staff said plans for human rights accommodations will be developed on a case-by-case basis and may require regular testing. Philosophical, personal, moral, ethical and political objections are not protected under the Human Rights Code, the report stated. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Windsor City Hall is shown on Wednesday, September 15, 2021. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star St. Clair College, the University of Windsor, local hospitals and the County of Essex have similar policies. Municipalities that already have policies in place threatening unpaid leave or termination for unvaccinated employees include the County of Essex, Kingsville, Greater Sudbury, Ottawa, York, London, Oakville and Toronto. The City of Windsor protocol is set for one year, but council has the power to extend it. Councillors voted unanimously in favour of the new requirements. “There is too much at risk,” said Ward 6 Coun. Jo-Anne Gignac. “The policy we have looked at thoroughly is reflective of what is needed in the community.” Delegates from the Windsor Professional Firefighters Association, Civic Association of Non-Union Employees (CANUE) and CUPE urged councillors to implement regular testing protocols instead of mandatory vaccinations. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “There should be an option for people choosing not to vaccinate,” said CUPE Local 82 president Rob Kolody. “We absolutely believe there should be some form of testing.” Kris Matton, president of the Windsor Professional Firefighters Association, agreed that regular testing is a “proven option.” “Knowing if a person is carrying the virus is the best evidence for stopping transmission,” he said. “To not address this option, I do believe without a doubt, is a poor decision.” Gayle Jones, president of the Civic Association of Non-Union Employees (CANUE), asked council to defer a decision for more input. She said the city already has staffing issues that the vaccination policy will only compound. “We don’t want to see our members fail,” said Jones. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content David Petten, president of CUPE Local 543, called for a more “robust” education program to highlight the importance of vaccines. He said members afraid to get vaccinated have called him “crying on the phone” because they think they’re going to lose their jobs. “It does not really feel like a choice for people living paycheque to paycheque, as some of my members do,” he said. The new policy does include vaccine promotion and education programs to “help inform those who might be vaccine-hesitant.” But Francis said the time to rely solely on education is over. “Testing and vaccinations are not the same thing,” he said. “We’ve had 18 months of education. Eighteen months. I don’t know what another eight weeks will do.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content More On This Topic Windsor to mandate vaccination or twice weekly COVID-19 testing for city employees CN Rail makes COVID-19 vaccination mandatory for workers County of Essex mandates COVID-19 vaccination for all staff Ward 2 Coun. Fabio Costante said he respects that there is opposition to such mandates, but added vaccination is the “most effective way for us to mitigate the virus.” “That weights a lot on me, more than finding a balance that is less intrusive,” he said. Ward 3 Coun. Rino Bortolin shared that opinion, stating “vaccines are the only way out of this.” “This isn’t going away any time soon,” he said. “But we need action now.” twilhelm@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Windsor city council approves new mandatory vaccine policy for municipal employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK