Deferred development charges for a town employee, a secret report and now a possible audit | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Author of the article: Anne Jarvis Publishing date: Nov 27, 2021 • 1 day ago • 7 minute read Former Amherstburg CAO John Miceli is seen in council chambers in this file photo from April 2, 2019. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Article content Two agreements described as “distasteful” between the Town of Amherstburg and a company owned by the town’s former chief administrative officer, John Miceli, and his wife to defer $84,000 in development charges have angered some councillors and the public. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The agreements were discussed at the Nov. 8 council meeting, along with a $14,500 consultant’s report, on a key, much-debated town property that only recently surfaced more than a year after it was completed and paid for. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Back to video “The public is not happy,” Coun. Michael Prue said at the council meeting, when councillors were asked to authorize the deferred development charges agreements. But, he said, “I don’t think any of us has any choice but to put our hands up, as much as we may find it distasteful.” The Micelis’ numbered company is building townhouses for rent on Livingstone Crescent and Westcott Road. Company president Rita Miceli is named in the agreements as the applicant requesting that the development charges, $42,032 for each project, be deferred and paid in instalments over five years. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Development charges, which pay for services like water and sewers, are normally paid when a building permit is issued. An amendment to Ontario’s Development Charges Act in 2019 allows the charges for for-profit rental housing to be deferred and paid in instalments over five years to encourage construction. If developers request the deferral, municipalities must grant it. Amherstburg’s chief building official approved the application for Westcott Road on June 30 and the one for Livingstone Crescent on July 30. John Miceli, the company secretary and treasurer, was Amherstburg’s CAO and the chief building official’s boss at the time. He and two other senior administrators were walked out of the town’s office, with police present, on Aug. 9 and no longer work there. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Prue acknowledged at the meeting that the town is “bound by that law” but nevertheless said council “may feel uncomfortable with” the agreements. Amherstburg Coun. Michael Prue is seen in this file photo from 2018 before he was elected to council. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star The Micelis’ application was the first that the town has received, and it “was made with a turnaround time by the town of, I think, a couple of hours,” he said in an interview this week. “I can’t believe that our staff could work that fast with all the other things going on. “He (Miceli) knew the levers and how to get it done in very short order, thank you,” Prue said. However, the agreements state that the application for the Westcott Road property was dated Sept. 15, 2020, and the application for the Livingstone property was dated Oct. 29, 2020. The mayor and several other councillors contacted refused to comment on the agreements, citing potential legal action. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The town’s conflict-of-interest policy states that staff must declare conflicts and can’t participate in decisions in which they or their families have a financial interest. Miceli said in an interview that he told Mayor Aldo DiCarlo that he was building rental properties. He also said he was “not involved at all” in handling the file at the town. “I stayed right away from the file.” The town’s moonlighting policy also states that staff can’t “engage in any outside work or activity or business undertaking in which the employee has an advantage or appears to have an advantage derived from employment with the town.” Miceli said his company is not in a conflict of interest. “How would my company be in a conflict of interest if it’s something that the province of Ontario is permitting?” he asked. “It’s not something that the town can not do. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “We were just seeking the same deferral as any other resident in the province of Ontario is entitled to,” he said. Neither Miceli nor anyone from the town would say if the agreements were a factor in his loss of employment. Council expects Miceli to sue the town. But, Prue said in the interview, “there were people in town who read the report and didn’t want us to do it (approve the agreements). They just thought this was not right. That fact that he had been walked out of the office probably had something to do with it.” Council eventually authorized the agreements. One councillor, Don McArthur, didn’t vote. Council rejected another recommendation by chief building official Angelo Avolio to delegate approval of future applications to the CAO. With development “booming,” the town could receive more applications, and delegating approval to the CAO would enable staff to act faster, he wrote in his report. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “This is what got us here in the first place,” Prue countered at the meeting. Council appointed itself to authorize future agreements. The $14,500 report by Dillon Consulting on the best use of Centennial Park also landed at council Nov. 8. But it was dated June 2020. Amherstburg Coun. Donald McArthur is seen during a meeting of town council in this file photo from 2019. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Star No one, not the mayor, not even community services director Heidi Baillargeon, who led extensive public consultation on the future of the park in the heart of the town, said they had heard of the 200-page report. “Why are we only seeing it now?” McArthur asked interim CAO Tony Haddad at the meeting. “I cannot answer that,” Haddad replied. “Where did you find it?” McArthur asked. “In the (CAO’s) office,” Haddad responded. “On a pile of papers?” McArthur asked. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Literally in a box,” Haddad said. When Coun. Peter Courtney asked who authorized the report, Hadded recommended moving in camera, meaning barring the public from the meeting. “I don’t know why we have to go in camera because it’s such a straight question,” Courtney countered. Then he asked how much the report cost. “I really recommend that council go in camera,” Haddad repeated. In this file photo from 2018 when the Town of Amherstburg was grappling with a bid from Windsor Police to provide policing services, Amherstburg CAO John Miceli, right, gestures while making a point. Amherstburg Mayor Aldo DiCarlo and consultant Mike Mitchell, left, joined Miceli. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star The meeting was moved in camera. When the public was allowed in again, Haddad said former CAO John Miceli had commissioned the report for $14,500, and the money had come from the CAO’s professional services account. Miceli said in an interview that the previous council “would have” requested the report at an in camera meeting. But Dillon wasn’t retained until January 2019, more than a month after the current council was sworn in. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Miceli also acknowledged that the report had not gone to council. Why? “I can’t answer that question because of legal issues,” he said. “Have you asked the mayor about it?” he asked. DiCarlo and deputy mayor Leo Meloche are the only two people on council who were also on council the previous term. DiCarlo said in an interview that he began experiencing ill health late in the last term and missed some meetings where the report could have been discussed. Meloche said in an interview he couldn’t discuss anything that was in camera. Council voted last February to proceed with public consultation and to ask its administration for a report on the future of both Centennial and Purdie parks. “Rather than discuss these vital issues about these valuable properties behind closed doors, we voted to discuss them in the open and fully engage and seek input from the residents,” McArthur wrote in his blog at the time. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content An overwhelming majority of residents told a town survey that they want Centennial to remain a park. Thousands of residents signed a petition to save it. They even said they’re willing to pay more taxes to maintain their parks. The town unveiled initial drawings last July with options for a park only or a park and some affordable or supportive housing for those who can’t live independently. Through it all, the report, which concluded that the best use of the park is medium density residential development, including semi-detached and row housing and apartments, was never released to council or the public. “Anything I’ve done with regards to Centennial Park would have gone to council … in camera,” Miceli said. But this was McArthur in an interview: “We directed administration to consult with the public, not bluff the public and not conceal things from the public. We wanted everything on the table and nothing in a box. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “My whole thing this whole time has been, get it all out, discuss it publicly, openly and transparently, as a community, and only then you make the best choice.” Said Courtney in an interview, “Of course it makes us look bad, like we’re being deceitful.” It’s a waste of taxpayers’ money, Prue suggested in an interview. “It certainly served no purpose since we got it beyond that time when it could have been useful,” he said. Dillon was to present the report to council this week. Instead, councillors voted Nov. 8 simply to receive it. “It would have stirred up a hornet’s nest,” said Prue. “People had made their input. Those results had been made public. The council had accepted them. So what do you do? Put this report out, ask everyone to read an inch-and-a-half-thick document and do it again? We decided not to.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content More On This Topic Ejected Amherstburg managers no longer employed by the town Amherstburg lawyer takes CAO post after staff ejected But this isn’t over. Courtney introduced a notice of motion Monday, to be heard at the next meeting, calling for KPMG to audit the town’s “internal controls,” operating budget variances from 2018 to 2021 and capital projects worth more than $300,000 for the same period, including the Richmond Street Hub. “There’s been massive staff turnover. There’s been high positions let go,” he said in an interview, confirming for the first time publicly that senior administrators were let go. “People are wondering what’s going on. We are going to do our due diligence and roll over all rocks to make sure that the town is not being compromised or anything’s wrong. We’ll let a third-party audit prove that.” ajarvis@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Related Stories Netflix employee at the center of protests against Dave Chappelle resigns 5 days, 11 hours ago Television FATAH: The outrageous censorship of Nadia Murad 3 days, 11 hours ago Columnists Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Stellantis pushes vaccination deadline back to Dec. 31 Stellantis will begin disciplining workers who have not reported their vaccination status December 1, but has agreed to delay implementation of its full vaccination mandate by another two weeks. 2 days, 11 hours ago Local News Ontario government worker one of two charged in vaccine portal breach Ayoub Sayid is an employee of the Ministry of Government and Consumer Services -- Vaccine Contact Centre 5 days, 6 hours ago Local News Reader letter: More education needed locally on value of trees Re: $25,000 donation will boost city’s leafy coverage, by Brian Cross, Nov. 6 4 days, 11 hours ago Letters This Week in Flyers Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK