Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links World Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Author of the article: Reuters Toby Sterling and Bart H. Meijer Publishing date: Nov 27, 2021 • 1 day ago • 3 minute read • Join the conversation The "Arrivals" and "Departures" boards are pictured at Schiphol airport after Dutch health authorities said that 61 people who arrived in Amsterdam on flights from South Africa tested positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), in Amsterdam, Netherlands, November 27, 2021. Photo by EVA PLEVIER /REUTERS Article content AMSTERDAM — Dutch health authorities said on Saturday they had detected 61 COVID-19 cases among people who flew from South Africa on Friday and believe at least some infections are of the new omicron variant. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The cases were discovered among 624 passengers who arrived at Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport on two flights on Friday before the Dutch government restricted air traffic from southern Africa due to concerns over the variant. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Back to video “In a number of the tested persons the omicron variant is presumed to have been found,” the Netherlands Institute for Health (RIVM) said in a statement. An RIVM spokesperson said it was “almost certain” the cases were of the new variant, but further testing was needed to be absolutely sure. The RIVM would not say how many cases it suspects to be of the omicron variant. The passengers from Friday’s flights were kept separated from other travellers and those who tested positive are now being kept in isolation at a hotel near the airport. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content A spokesperson for KLM, the Dutch arm of Air France, said the passengers on the flight had either tested negative or shown proof of vaccination before getting on planes in Cape Town and Johannesburg. “It goes too far to say we are surprised” by the high number of cases, a KLM spokesperson said. “But we don’t have an explanation.” The spokesperson said it was possible many of the positive cases were among vaccinated people, or that an unusual number of people developed infections after having tested negative. Dutch health authorities were seeking to contact some 5,000 other passengers who have travelled from South Africa, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia or Zimbabwe since Monday to urge them to take a COVID-19 test as soon as possible. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. ‘REALLY WEIRD’ Paula Zimmerman, a Dutch photographer who returned from a family visit in South Africa on Friday morning, said the situation for the passengers on the planes was chaotic, as they were kept waiting on the tarmac and in the terminal for hours. Zimmerman was told she had tested negative at 4 a.m., almost 18 hours after landing in Amsterdam. But she then found out she was standing right next to a man who discovered he had tested positive. “It was really weird. There was no coordination. There were too few people and there really wasn’t anybody who took control.” Having spent hours on a flight that likely had many infected passengers made Zimmerman anxious for the days to come, she said. “I’ve been told that they expect that a lot more people will test positive after five days. It’s a little scary, the idea that you’ve been in a plane with a lot of people who tested positive.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Dutch citizens are still allowed to return home from southern Africa, while EU citizens are allowed entry in transit to their home countries. Medical staff, airline crews and people with pressing needs are also still allowed to travel. KLM will continue flights to the region, but all travellers must now test negative before departure and then quarantine for at least five days upon arrival in the Netherlands. The new variant has been detected just as many European countries are grappling with a surge in coronavirus cases. The Dutch government on Friday announced the nighttime closure of bars, restaurants and most stores as it tries to curb a record-breaking wave of COVID-19 cases that is swamping its healthcare system. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Related Stories Dozens of COVID-19 cases on flight from South Africa, Dutch authorities say 1 day, 10 hours ago World South Africa says travel bans over new variant unjustified 2 days, 4 hours ago World Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. What we know about the new coronavirus variant in South Africa 2 days, 6 hours ago World New COVID variant Omicron triggers global alarm, market sell-off 1 day, 23 hours ago Business Concerned by new variant, Asian countries move to tighten COVID-19 measures 2 days, 10 hours ago World This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK