Ejected Amherstburg managers no longer employed by the town | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Ejected Amherstburg managers no longer employed by the town Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Ejected Amherstburg managers no longer employed by the town Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Ejected Amherstburg managers no longer employed by the town Author of the article: Trevor Wilhelm Publishing date: Aug 20, 2021 • August 20, 2021 • 2 minute read • 5 Comments The Amherstburg Municipal Building is shown on Monday, August 16, 2021. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content The three high-ranking Town of Amherstburg managers ejected from town hall last week have been officially dismissed from their jobs, the Star has learned. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Effective Thursday, CAO John Miceli, Licensing and Enforcement manager Nicole Rubli and Corporate Services director Cheryl Horrobin are out of a job in Amherstburg. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Ejected Amherstburg managers no longer employed by the town Back to video Mayor Aldo DiCarlo would not state whether the employees were dismissed or resigned, but did confirm the individuals “are no longer employed with the town.” Other town employees were informed of the development on Thursday. “I can tell you we have notified the town employees of the circumstances and have confirmed for them that those are the affected individuals,” he said. “We’ve been having meetings with the town staff, so we have confirmed that information.” Miceli refused to comment Thursday evening. Rubli and Horrobin could not be reached. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Amherstburg, Ontario. January 27, 2018. Amherstburg CAO John Miceli listens as consultant Mike Mitchell makes a presentation at 4th community meeting to discuss issues of policing and details about Windsor Police Services proposal at Libro Centre Saturday January 27, 2018. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star The controversy began Aug. 9 when the three individuals were ejected from town hall as Windsor police kept an eye on things. DiCarlo has previously stressed that no one was arrested. He said the cancellation of a town council meeting that night was a coincidence. DiCarlo said Thursday he still could not confirm the reasons the three individuals are no longer employed with the town. “As much as I’d like to, and I’m sure the residents all want to know, council does have a fiduciary responsibility to the tax payers in mitigating any potential litigations,” he said. “It is a personnel matter and council has made all of their decisions based on the best interests of the town moving forward.” There were also reports that some property including electronics has been seized, though that has not been confirmed. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content A special in-camera council meeting was held on Monday to deal with the ongoing situation. The full details of that meeting have not been made public. Amherstburg Mayor Aldo DiCarlo speaks to reporters after attending a Windsor Police Services Board meeting on Thursday, March 21, 2019. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star The controversy continued this week with rumours and unanswered questions piling up as town officials faced a revolving door of interim CAOs. Town lawyer Susan Hirota was appointed Amherstburg’s acting CAO after Miceli and the others were first removed from town property. But on Tuesday, the Town of Kingsville announced Hirota will be moving to their organization as the director of Legal and Clerk Services. Hirota told the Star on Tuesday her move “is not related to the current situation” in Amherstburg, and that the Kingsville opportunity was “too good to turn down.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Hirota, who was the City of Windsor’s senior legal counsel for 15 years, joined Amherstburg as town solicitor on July 21. She leaves on Aug. 29. Antonietta Giofu, Amhersturg’s director of Infrastructure Services, will take over as acting CAO the following day. More On This Topic Amherstburg lawyer takes CAO post after staff ejected Author of the article: Amherstburg appoints second acting CAO in a week DiCarlo, who acknowledged that the announcement of Hirota’s departure after just six weeks was unexpected, said the personnel shuffles will not have an effect on town operations. “We have a talented, dedicated staff who will continue the business of the town and maintain the momentum we’ve achieved over the last few years,” he said. “It’s business as usual. We’ve got a lot of good people working here, and I think we can continue doing what we do.” twilhelm@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Ejected Amherstburg managers no longer employed by the town Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK