'Everyone will miss his razzing:' Former Windsor police officer remembered | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: 'Everyone will miss his razzing:' Former Windsor police officer remembered Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: 'Everyone will miss his razzing:' Former Windsor police officer remembered Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News 'Everyone will miss his razzing:' Former Windsor police officer remembered Author of the article: Kathleen Saylors Publishing date: Nov 25, 2021 • 3 days ago • 2 minute read • Join the conversation Retired Windsor Police officer Bill Glen, 76, displays the front page of the Windsor Star the day after he and his partner William Pheby were shot and injured by a gunman in 1973. Incredibly, Windsor Star photographer Cec Southward took a photograph of the injured Pheby in a Met Hospital bed and the story included names of both officers and the deceased gunman. Glen passed away on Nov. 11. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star Article content William “Bill” Glen, Nov. 30, 1942 to Nov. 11, 2021 Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Bill Glen loved his dogs, his Harley and making people laugh. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. 'Everyone will miss his razzing:' Former Windsor police officer remembered Back to video The longtime Windsor police officer who made headlines after he was shot in the line of duty in the 1970s, died Nov. 11 at the age of 78. Glen and his late partner, Const. William Pheby, were both shot while pursuing a gunman in 1973. More than a hundred shotgun pellets remained in Glen’s body decades later when he recalled the experience in a 2019 Star story. “How many times have I thought about that night? I couldn’t count that high. A lot,” Glen said at the time. Dorothy Glen, Bill’s wife of 27 years, said her husband loved his job as a police officer, especially a year spent doing undercover work. He belonged to the Blue Knights law enforcement motorcycle group and served with the Windsor police from 1964 to 1993. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “He never wanted to do anything else,” Dorothy said. Retired Windsor Police officer Bill Glen, shown here in May 2019, has passed away. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star In his retirement, Dorothy said her husband loved riding his Harley. The couple would spend winters in Florida, where Bill would ride with a GoPro camera strapped to his helmet and send the videos to friends toughing it out in the cold. “I’m not really sure, if he had to make a choice between me and the Harley, which one it would be,” Dorothy said with a laugh. Another of Bill’s passions were his dogs, Glen said. When the couple met, Bill had a Pekingese — “That was kind of funny, this big, tall guy walking the Pekingese,” Dorothy said — but later, the couple adopted greyhound dogs, often seniors dogs surrendered by other owners. Bill loved them because they’re “big couch potatoes” who love to sleep. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Dorothy said Bill was known for sitting outside in the summer with pockets full of dog treats for the passing dogs — every neighbourhood pet knew where Bill lived. “He was a real animal lover,” she said. More On This Topic Henderson: Retired Windsor cop relives night shotgun blast hit him during shootout Henderson: Difficult times to be police officer \ Dorothy said his friends will remember Bill as a man with a “relentless sense of humour” who loved to make people laugh. But more than that, he also brought out the humour in others. “He’d tease all the neighbours,” Dorothy said. “A neighbour of ours in Florida … she told me she’s going to miss that.” “I think I became sort of like him a bit, I found myself quipping back, like ‘I can’t believe I just said that.'” Bill would surprise her with flowers at least once a month, just because. Bill Glen is survived by his wife, Dorothy, two stepchildren, three grandchildren and numerous other beloved friends and family. Memorial visitation will take place at the Victoria Greenlawn Funeral Home on Friday, Nov. 26, 2021 from 2 to 4 p.m. and 6 to 8 p.m. Visitation will continue on Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021 from 10 a.m. until time of service at 11 a.m. Reservations are required for the service, 519-969-3939. Donations to the Greyhound Pets of America – Canada or the Windsor/Essex County Humane Society are appreciated. ksaylors@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: 'Everyone will miss his razzing:' Former Windsor police officer remembered Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK