FATAH: The outrageous censorship of Nadia Murad | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: FATAH: The outrageous censorship of Nadia Murad Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: FATAH: The outrageous censorship of Nadia Murad Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Columnists FATAH: The outrageous censorship of Nadia Murad Author of the article: Tarek Fatah Publishing date: Nov 24, 2021 • 4 days ago • 2 minute read • Join the conversation Nadia Murad, a 24-year-old Yazidi woman and co-recipient of the 2018 Nobel Peace Prize takes questions at the National Press Club on October 8, 2018 in Washington, DC. Photo by Tasos Katopodis /Getty Images Article content When the Toronto District School Board (TDSB) initially cancelled an event with Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Nadia Murad, the reason given was that such an event could foster Islamophobia. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Murad was invited to speak at a book club founded by Tanya Lee, where teen girls from various secondary schools hear from female authors. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. FATAH: The outrageous censorship of Nadia Murad Back to video But TDSB superintendent Helen Fisher expressed concern over Murad’s book The Last Girl: My Story of Captivity, and My Fight Against the Islamic State, telling book club organizer that students should not participate in an event with the author scheduled for February. At the age of 14, Nadia Murad was kidnapped by Islamic State jihadis and taken into sex slavery. In the words of Rex Murphy of the National Post: “From that pit of hell, [Nadia] incredibly found the personal resources to escape, champion the cause of brutalized young women everywhere, and ascend to the heights of the world’s high honour, the Nobel Prize.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content For many of us who have followed the mass murder of the Yazidi people of Iraq and have marvelled at the courage of Murad, the TDSB decision came as a shock. It reeked of ignorance and subservience to an Islamist attitude that has infiltrated too many institutions of Canada, especially urban schools where cafeterias have been turned into prayer halls, with gender apartheid on full display. Shocked by the exchange with Helen Fisher, Tanya Lee says she then sent her an email containing detailed information on the Islamic organization, coming from the BBC and CNN. “This is what the Islamic State means,” she wrote to the superintendent: “It is a terrorist organization. It has nothing to do with ordinary Muslims. The Toronto school board should be aware of the difference.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Last Friday, after the censorship of both Murad and lawyer Marie Henein, another author selected by the book club, by the TDSB became world news, the board attempted to backtrack. Colleen Russell-Rawlins, director of education, issued a statement described as a “clarification.” “An opinion that did not reflect the position of the Toronto District School Board was shared with the organizer of the book club prior to staff having an opportunity to read the books – something that is routinely done before giving them to students. Staff are currently reading both books and anticipate being able to add them to the list of titles used in the corresponding course(s).” Who are these mandarins of political correctness and wokeness who are currently reading the book? Sounds more like the censor board of Pravda during the days of the USSR. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The TDSB decision is not merely about censorship. It is about the drumbeat of ‘Islamophobia’ that has made every concerned citizen worry that he or she does not end up with the tag of “racist” throughout their lives. The sword of Islamophobia now hangs over the heads of most Canadians who wish to keep religion and politics separate and outside the public domain. But they dare not stand up for the values of liberal secular democracy that are the foundations of Canadian values. When the largest education board in Canada surrenders itself to the whims of Islamist sensitivities, and Nadia Murad is designated as a possible contributor to Islamophobia, then rest assured the dikes have been breached. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: FATAH: The outrageous censorship of Nadia Murad Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK