Fearing empty shelves, Black Friday 'early birds' head to U.S. stores | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Fearing empty shelves, Black Friday 'early birds' head to U.S. stores Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Fearing empty shelves, Black Friday 'early birds' head to U.S. stores Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links World Fearing empty shelves, Black Friday 'early birds' head to U.S. stores Author of the article: Reuters Richa Naidu and Arriana Mclymore Publishing date: Nov 26, 2021 • 2 days ago • 4 minute read • Join the conversation A man with Nike bags talks on the phone in front of a Nike store as Black Friday sales begin at The Outlet Shoppes of the Bluegrass in Simpsonville, Kentucky, U.S., November 26, 2021. Photo by JONATHAN CHERRY /REUTERS Article content CHICAGO — Bargain hunters ventured out in chilly weather to buy Christmas gifts on Black Friday, finding stores less crowded than in years past as major U.S. retailers opened their doors early. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content A shift online, COVID fears and less-steep discounts have thinned crowds on the day after the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday, which kicks off the year-end shopping season. Many shoppers are also choosing curbside pick-up rather than venturing inside. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Fearing empty shelves, Black Friday 'early birds' head to U.S. stores Back to video “What a lot of customers are doing is drive-up, they don’t even enter the store. I think that’s one of the reasons it looks quiet,” said Ian Korolenko, 29, a vacuum salesperson asked by Target to help out on Black Friday. “I also think a lot of these stores do their Black Friday deals earlier in the week now, and a lot of them go online now.” Macy’s is extending its digital delivery deadline closer to Christmas, Chief Executive Jeff Gennette told Reuters in an interview. The deadline will now be Dec. 22 or Dec. 23, versus Dec. 15 last year. If shoppers order by 10 a.m., they could have same-day delivery in certain stores and categories. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “You’re still going to have that last-minute procrastinator that’s going to come in on Christmas Eve,” Gennette said. Francisco Martinez, 22, a delivery driver, was one of more than 100 people standing outside a Walmart Supercenter in the Kilbourn Park neighbourhood of Chicago before 5 a.m., in 20 degree Fahrenheit (-7 degree Celsius) weather. As people queued, a Walmart worker handed out coupons for items such as Apple AirPods and watches and Gateway laptops. “I want to get a 65-inch Element TV – it’s $350 off,” said Martinez, who was wearing three layers of clothing, adding: “I think I’m going to get it – it’s not as crowded as it used to be.” We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. ‘EARLY ONLINE BIRDS GET THE WORM’ As online shopping has taken off, Black Friday crowds have dwindled, particularly in 2020 when people were still unvaccinated and worried about COVID-19. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Dresden Davis, 28, said she’s doing her Black Friday shopping from her couch now that sales aren’t “Black Friday-ing” like they used to. “I feel like a lot of places only have 20-25% off, when usually Black Friday sales are more,” said Davis, a strategy and planning specialist in Odenton, Maryland. For November and December, online sales are estimated to hit a record $207 billion, up 10% from last year, according to Adobe Digital Economy Index. The National Retail Federation has forecast combined brick-and-mortar and online holiday sales would grow 8.5%-10.5% to between $843.4 billion and $859 billion. Walmart, Best Buy and Target this year did not require vaccinated shoppers to wear masks, but some indoor malls kept existing mask requirements. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content At the Chicago-area stores Reuters visited, both employees and shoppers generally wore masks. Realtor Kelsey Hupp, 36, for years shopped at the Macy’s department store in downtown Chicago on Black Friday, and she kept with the tradition this year. “Chicago is pretty safe and masked and vaccinated. I got my booster so I’m not too concerned about it,” she said. Macy’s Gennette said Black Friday store traffic “exceeded our expectations in the first couple of hours.” A Deloitte survey showed people already spent 80%-85% of their budgets before Black Friday. “People are looking to get back to normal,” said Rod Sides, Deloitte’s U.S. retail leader. “The early online birds, and the birds that went into the store, may get the worm.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Another concern is that an ongoing supply chain logjam might prevent retailers from stocking sought-after items such as Hoverboard scooters, Oculus Quest 2 headsets, Nerf toys, AirPods Pro earbuds and MacBook Air laptops. CURBSIDE DEMAND U.S. consumers enter the holiday season flush with spending power thanks to a still-hefty pile of savings from multiple rounds of government pandemic relief, and double-digit wage increases as businesses compete for workers. Online and brick-and-mortar retailing come together just outside the store. Retailers including Target, Macy’s and Walmart allocated more space and workers to online pick-up stations and curbside parking. Walmart, the world’s biggest retailer, hired 150,000 workers for the holidays, many for these jobs. Walmart is giving users an hour to check out after scheduling a time to retrieve orders. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Target added more than 18,000 “drive-up” parking spaces, more than doubling spots versus last year. Target’s website warns of “limited qualities” and “no rainchecks.” Curbside pickup increased 92% in November compared to 2019, according to Adobe Digital Economy Index. Electronics – in short supply due to a global chip shortage – had the highest out-of-stock levels, followed by personal care, and home and garden, according to Adobe. Through most of November, out-of-stocks were up 261% versus 2019. “Instead of seeing eight piled-high boxes of TVs, you might see three or four stacks of TVs,” NPD analyst Marshal Cohen said. Elver Gomez, 21, came to Best Buy at 6 a.m. but found the Apple and Microsoft laptops he wanted out of stock. “It seems like this year it’s either out of stock or isn’t that great of a price,” the student said. “I’m not going to get what I wanted.” Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Fearing empty shelves, Black Friday 'early birds' head to U.S. stores Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK