Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links World Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Author of the article: Reuters Steve Gorman Publishing date: Nov 28, 2021 • 18 hours ago • 2 minute read • Join the conversation An American Airlines plane is seen at sunrise parked on the tarmac of the Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) in Arlington, Virginia, on April 22, 2021. Photo by Daniel Slim/AFP /Getty Images Article content A Guatemalan stowaway hidden in the landing gear compartment of an American Airlines jet survived a flight on Saturday from his home country to Miami, where he was turned over to U.S. immigration officials and taken to a hospital for evaluation. The U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency confirmed the incident in a statement initially cited by Miami-based television station WTVJ, which posted video taken of the man at Miami International Airport shortly after the plane landed. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Back to video The video, attributed to the social media page “Only in Dade” on Instagram, showed the stowaway appearing dazed but otherwise unharmed, sitting on the tarmac beside the plane – dressed in blue jeans, a T-shirt, jacket and boots – as ground crew personnel tended to him and asked if he wanted some water. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content View this post on Instagram A post shared by ONLY in DADE (@onlyindade) “U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers at Miami International Airport apprehended a 26-year-old man who attempted to evade detection in the landing gear compartment of an aircraft arriving from Guatemala Saturday morning,” the CBP statement said. “The individual was evaluated by emergency medical services and taken to a hospital for medical assessment,” the agency added. “This incident remains under investigation.” American Airlines issued a statement saying its Flight 1182 from Guatemala City to Miami arrived shortly after 10 a.m. local time and “was met by law enforcement due to a security issue.” The airline gave no further details, except to say it was assisting in the investigation. The Guatemala-to-Miami trip is a flight of just over 2 1/2 hours. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Guatemala has accounted for a large portion of some 1.7 million migrants apprehended or expelled by U.S. border agents over the past year, many of them Central Americans fleeing violent gangs and grinding poverty. Immigration attorney Angel Leal told WTVJ the Guatemalan stowaway would be detained by CBP while facing an expedited removal order. The incident was reminiscent of footage in August showing desperate Afghans trying to latch onto the exterior of a U.S. military cargo jet as it taxied for take-off during chaotic evacuations from Kabul after Taliban forces seized control of Afghanistan. Separate video showed what appeared to be two people falling from the plane as it flew off from Kabul. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. The Federal Aviation Administration declined to comment on Saturday’s incident. According to the FAA, 129 people have attempted to stow away in the wheel wells or other areas of commercial aircraft worldwide since 1947. Of those, the agency said, 100 have died of injuries or exposure. In one such incident in April 2014, a 16-year-old boy who ran away from home survived five hours in the wheel well of a jetliner as it flew from California to Hawaii. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Related Stories Dozens of COVID-19 cases on flight from South Africa, Dutch authorities say 1 day, 10 hours ago World LaSalle police warn businesses of suspect with counterfeit U.S. cash Reports of a man with a fistful of counterfeit American cash who recently tried to purchase takeout with a fake bill has prompted a warning from LaSalle police. 2 days ago Local News Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant 11 hours, 2 minutes ago World Merck's COVID-19 pill shows lower efficacy in updated data 2 days, 10 hours ago World Canada's worst mass shooting helped push 2020 murder rate to 15-year high 3 days, 6 hours ago National This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK