Health unit reports 195 new cases of COVID-19 in Windsor-Essex | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Health unit reports 195 new cases of COVID-19 in Windsor-Essex Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Health unit reports 195 new cases of COVID-19 in Windsor-Essex Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Health unit reports 195 new cases of COVID-19 in Windsor-Essex Author of the article: Taylor Campbell Publishing date: Dec 14, 2020 • December 14, 2020 • 3 minute read • Join the conversation The exterior of the Windsor-Essex County Health Unit building in downtown Windsor is shown Nov. 17, 2020. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Article content Windsor-Essex has once again recorded a new all-time-high single-day increase in COVID-19 infections. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The local health unit on Monday reported 195 new confirmed cases of the virus, eclipsing the previous local record of 127 cases set last Wednesday. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Health unit reports 195 new cases of COVID-19 in Windsor-Essex Back to video The case count is so significant that, for the first time in 10 months, Windsor-Essex County Health Unit CEO Theresa Marentette did not provide a breakdown of where the infections came from, instead stating the transmission sources for all 195 cases are still under investigation by WECHU staff. Officials did reveal that some of the cases are farm workers in the county, and others are associated with outbreaks at long-term care homes. With provincial lockdown measures implemented locally on Monday, Medical Officer of Health Dr. Wajid Ahmed said he hopes residents will follow public health guidance and prevent the virus from spreading further in the community. However, he was “disappointed” by the number of people who were out shopping over the weekend in advance of widespread store closures. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “We have worked really hard to get the message out about the cases, about the potential impacts, and about the restrictions,” he said, adding the lockdown announcement on Friday shouldn’t have come as a surprise — the local COVID-19 data had warranted a lockdown for more than a week prior. Although shoppers appeared to be following public health guidelines, “the number of people coming together in large numbers increases the risk significantly,” he said. No additional COVID deaths were reported on Monday, though the health unit reported four deaths over the weekend. They were a woman in her 90s from the community, two men in their 80s from the community, and a man in his 80s from the community. Since March, 4,763 local residents have tested positive for COVID-19. Of those, 779 cases are active and being monitored by public health unit staff and 91 people have died. The remaining 3,893 cases are considered resolved. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content In the second wave, which began around Nov. 1 when case counts started to climb, 1,921 people have tested positive. In other words, roughly 40 per cent of the region’s confirmed infections occurred in the past 44 days. With a local COVID-19 death rate of about 2.2 per cent, Ahmed again emphasized that the region can expect more people to die — about 22 of every 1,000 people infected — as a result of the disease. In the last three weeks alone, 12 people in Windsor-Essex have died from complications brought on by COVID-19. “As a community, are we okay to say, ‘It’s okay, let people die, we’ll just do what we need to do because we’re doing it safely.’ No, you’re not,” Ahmed said. If residents were “doing things safely, we wouldn’t have this number of cases. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “It’s a false sense of security that some people are putting forward.” Over the weekend, the WECHU reported 115 new cases. As of Monday afternoon, 42 people with confirmed cases of COVID-19 were in local hospitals, with 11 of them in intensive care. An additional 60 people with suspected cases of COVID-19 who have not yet received test results are in hospital. There are 21 locations in Windsor and Essex County with active outbreaks of COVID-19. Seven are long-term care and retirement homes: Extendicare Tecumseh, Chartwell St. Clair Beach, and Village of Aspen Lake in Tecumseh, Berkshire Care Centre, The Village at St. Clair, and Devonshire Retirement Residence in Windsor, and Country Village in Woodslee. The health unit continues to monitor community outbreaks at Manor Lodge House and Victoria Manor. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Nine of the outbreaks are at workplaces: four farms — two in Kingsville and two in Leamington — and one is a health care and social assistance business in Lakeshore. Three are manufacturing facilities in Windsor, Kingsville, and Tecumseh, and one is a finance and insurance business in Leamington. Hotel-Dieu Grace Healthcare continues to manage an outbreak at its Prince Road facility, where 18 patients and 36 health-care workers have tested positive as of Monday afternoon. Outbreaks are also active at General Brock Public School and Corpus Christi Catholic Middle School’s Central Park Athletics Campus. As well, Immaculate Conception Catholic Elementary School, Holy Cross Catholic Elementary School and St. Angela Catholic Elementary School reported one case. Another case was reported at St. Thomas of Villanova Catholic High School, bringing to three the number of cases at that school. Ontario logged 1,940 new cases of the novel coronavirus on Monday, as well as 23 more deaths. tcampbell@postmedia.com twitter.com/wstarcampbell Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Health unit reports 195 new cases of COVID-19 in Windsor-Essex Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK