Henderson: Difficult times to be police officer | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Henderson: Difficult times to be police officer Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Henderson: Difficult times to be police officer Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Letters Editorials Columnists Henderson: Difficult times to be police officer Author of the article: Gord Henderson Publishing date: Jul 04, 2020 • 1 year ago • 3 minute read • 11 Comments Windsor Police officers speak with Windsor firefighters while investigating a two-vehicle collision on Huron Church Road Tuesday. The idea of a regional police force is being floated by some local politicians. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star Article content Bill Glen has no regrets about the three decades he spent serving Windsor as a front-line police officer, not even with those 100-plus shotgun pellets still lodged in his abdomen, but he wouldn’t dream of putting on a uniform in today’s cop-hating, camera-loving environment. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “I wouldn’t touch it now. You need a hell of a lot of restraint today, a hell of a lot more than I’ve got,” said the active, motorcycle-riding 77-year-old. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Henderson: Difficult times to be police officer Back to video Last year, I wrote about Glen’s role in a 1973 Remington Park shootout that left a shotgun-wielding robber dead and Glen and his partner, the late William Pheby, seriously wounded. Glen said the police have never been hugely popular. That goes with the territory when you hand out traffic tickets and arrest people. He remembers, back in the day, being called a “pig” and hearing threats to burn down his house and worse. But the current situation, with the police labelled the enemy and with calls to defund and dismantle departments gaining traction across America and spilling into Canada, all in response to the brutal, senseless police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis six weeks ago, is unlike anything he’s seen. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Glen was as appalled as you and I were by those horrifying images of Floyd begging for air while being suffocated by an officer’s knee on his neck — maybe more so because he’s made countless arrests and knows how wrong it was. “They killed him. They murdered him. It was an ugly scene,” said Glen. A contributing factor, he believes, was the innate fear rookie officers have of confronting a veteran, even one doing something disastrously wrong. One of the four officers charged in Minneapolis had been an officer for four days. Another was working only his third shift. But Glen can’t grasp, and neither can I, how one awful crime could metastasize into continent-wide condemnation of all officers and their profession. Do we blame all nurses when one turns out to be a serial killer? Do we threaten to close all hospitals when a doctor goes berserk and kills a patient? Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content What troubles Glen is that the transgressions of the few (and few is still too many) completely overshadow the sacrifices made by many. Most of the 85 officers killed in the U.S. in an average year, said Glen, die with little public recognition and even less media attention. Most of us never hear of those deaths. We don’t hear all that much about their daily acts of heroism either. Only their transgressions make network news. Yet, the internet is littered with accounts of police rescuing people from burning cars, blazing homes and half-frozen lakes. You’ve probably never heard of Jonathan Wiese, the San Diego K9 officer who scaled down a cliff to rescue twin two-year-olds following their dad’s suicide bid. As Wiese put it: “You just do what you have to do, but after everyone was safe, it hits you and you just want to go home and hug your kids.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content And folks want to defund, dismantle and replace with empathetic social workers? Good luck with that. Welcome to anarchy and chaos. The one certainty from this hatefest for police, said Glen, is that it will get more difficult to recruit officers, here and in the gun-happy U.S. That’s already a problem, according to Mayor Drew Dilkens. Two decades ago policing was still considered a hugely desirable job and recruiters could pick out “the cream of the crop” from hordes of applicants. Those days are long gone. Now recruiting, even with $100,000 salaries, is a challenge. So much so that Windsor has instead focused on poaching trained officers from Toronto and other regions who are enticed by our low cost of living. Dilkens said the universal presence of cell phone cameras is one of the factors dissuading people from becoming police officers. It’s a positive development, in some ways. But who, he asks, would choose to work in an environment where your every move is potential online fodder? He said talk of defunding and dismantling police services is “sheer nonsense” and painting all police as collectively guilty will only worsen recruiting problems, especially among minorities the city has been struggling to recruit. “I’m still trying,” said Dilkens, “to understand the rationale connection between that event (the Floyd killing) and the notion that we have to take money away from police and give it to social services. Why does it have to be an either or discussion? Why indeed? g_henderson61@yahoo.ca Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Henderson: Difficult times to be police officer Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK