Henderson: Retired Windsor cop relives night shotgun blast hit him | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Henderson: Retired Windsor cop relives night shotgun blast hit him during shootout Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Henderson: Retired Windsor cop relives night shotgun blast hit him during shootout Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Columnists Henderson: Retired Windsor cop relives night shotgun blast hit him during shootout Author of the article: Gord Henderson Publishing date: May 04, 2019 • May 4, 2019 • 3 minute read • Join the conversation Retired Windsor Police officer Bill Glen, 76, displays the front page of the Windsor Star the day after he and his partner William Pheby were shot and injured by a gunman in 1973. Incredibly, Windsor Star photographer Cec Southward took a photograph of the injured Pheby in a Met Hospital bed and the story included names of both officers and the deceased gunman. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star Article content Bill Glen has replayed in his head, again and again, that fateful moment when a stream of shotgun pellets ripped into his belly, slammed him against the rear wall of a house and unleashed indescribable burning pain. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “How many times have I thought about that night? I couldn’t count that high. A lot,” said the retired Windsor constable of that 1973 night when he and his late partner, Constable William Pheby, confronted a gunman who wounded both of them before Glen killed him in the backyard of a Remington Park house. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Henderson: Retired Windsor cop relives night shotgun blast hit him during shootout Back to video Glen, an immensely likeable 76-year-old, contacted me in March from Florida, where he and his wife, Dorothy, spend winters, after reading my column which cited that shootout, covered in detail by the Star the following day, as evidence of how police transparency has evaporated. Having had his name, picture and family details published within hours of that shooting, Glen, too, wonders why, more than a year after a downtown Windsor shooting that claimed the life of a mentally ill 33-year-old who had attacked two officers with a steak knife, the public remains in the dark about the officers’ identities. They were cleared. So why this secrecy? Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Glen — who still hits the gym three times a week, loves riding his Harley-Davidson motorcycle and has survived incidents that include being dumped, bleeding, from an overturned airboat into an alligator-infested river — doesn’t need newspaper clippings to remind him of the events of Nov. 9, 1973. I took a man’s life and I had to do it. But that’s not easy to do He and Pheby, a powerfully built “man’s man” who was at the wheel, were on patrol in South Windsor about 7:30 p.m. when they spotted a Veteran cab that had been reported stolen in a violent robbery. Retired Windsor Police officer Bill Glen, 76, still has pellets in his body from being shot by a gunman in 1973. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star Following a chase through Remington Park, the cab came to a sudden halt in front of 640 Edinborough St. Crouched behind the cruiser doors, the officers pointed their service revolvers at the suspect, who appeared to be holding a sawed-off 20-gauge shotgun. Glen yelled: “Freeze and drop the gun.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Instead, the suspect fired, hitting Pheby in the left hand and over the eye. The officer went down and his gun clattered to the pavement as the gunman ran behind the house. Another blast had just missed Glen. Glen agreed an officer nowadays might wait for backup. But in 1973 there was no tactical unit, no shotguns in cruisers, no body armour, nothing. “And I’m pissed off. I figure if he’ll kill me, he’ll kill anybody,” said Glen. So he charged into the pitch-black backyard. The officer was standing on a small open porch, looking around, when the gunman reappeared, five feet away. “It was dark but I could see a silhouette. And he had something in his hand. I yelled ‘Freeze. Drop it.” A muzzle flashed. “You could see the flame come out of the gun. I felt a powerful impact and one hell of a burning sensation.” Glen responded with several shots before staggering back to the front of the house, holding his bleeding abdomen, to await help. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Only later did he learn one of his bullets had struck the suspect under the right eye, killing him instantly. Glen, operated on that night at Met Hospital, had been struck, including in the pancreas and stomach, by as many as 135 pellets. Twenty were removed that night. One surfaced years later. That leaves him walking around, almost 46 years later, with more than 100 pellets still trapped in fatty tissue. “Or, as I prefer to describe it, muscle,” joked Glen. He was out of the hospital in 11 days, spent a bit of time recuperating and was soon, nervous as hell, back in a cruiser. No counselling. No therapy. Just shake it off and get back to work. Glen, clearly a tough guy who dealt with many gruesome situations before retiring at 50, isn’t sure he would have accepted counselling if it had been available. In general, he believes the post-traumatic stress card is being overplayed, in some cases to the point of being a scam. But he’s convinced that Pheby, who was tormented by his belief that he had let Glen down, and died just seven years later, would have lived longer with counselling. “I always felt he was killed in the line of duty. That’s what led to his demise.” Glen also finds himself thinking of the young man he was forced to shoot and wondering what led him, given that we all start life innocent, to that fateful point. “What happened to this kid? Why did he go this way? I took a man’s life and I had to do it. But that’s not easy to do.” g_henderson61@yahoo.ca Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Henderson: Retired Windsor cop relives night shotgun blast hit him during shootout Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK