Latest concept drawings for Duffy's waterfront site | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Latest concept drawings for Duffy's waterfront site Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Latest concept drawings for Duffy's waterfront site Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Latest concept drawings for Duffy's waterfront site A small amphitheatre, a transient marina and a fishing wharf highlight the latest concept drawings for Amherstburg’s waterfront property where the former Duffy’s Tavern once stood. Author of the article: Mary Caton Publishing date: Oct 29, 2018 • October 29, 2018 • 2 minute read • Join the conversation The proposed Duffy's Marina redevelopment. Photo by Courtesy of Town of Amherstburg /Windsor Star Article content A small amphitheatre, a transient marina and a fishing wharf highlight the latest concept drawings for Amherstburg’s waterfront property where the former Duffy’s Tavern once stood. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Landmark Engineering Inc., the town’s project consultants, unveiled the preferred concepts for what town officials refer to as the Waterfront Property Project, last week. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Latest concept drawings for Duffy's waterfront site Back to video We don’t want to go to the bank and borrow millions of dollars when we can do it in stages Dan Krutsch, president of Landmark, said feedback has been mostly positive save for a segment of the community that’s pushing for a boat launch which his firm is not recommending. “The site location, in the downtown core, is not the optimal location for a boat ramp,” the report said, noting that “prime property” would have to be developed as a parking lot. Mayor Aldo DiCarlo said a waterfront parking lot threatened a proposed adjacent downtown hotel development by Amico Construction. “They didn’t want their guests looking down at a parking lot and if there’s a boat launch, it may have changed (Amico’s) opinion.” DiCarlo said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content More On This Topic Mayor Aldo DiCarlo mans excavator to begin demolition of Duffy's Tavern Demolition begins on former Duffy's Tavern Wrecking ball waits for Duffy's Tavern and Motor Inn DiCarlo and Krutsch noted the owners of Duffy’s Tavern closed their boat ramp in part because of hassles over trucks and trailers parked up and down Dalhousie Street. “It’s the craziest place for a boat launch,” DiCarlo said. “Been there, done that, it didn’t work well.” The concept drawings show a transient marina with 24 or 25 boat slips, an amphitheatre that’s 40 feet wide by 25 feet deep and a fishing pier that’s over 200 feet long. “With all the feedback we’ve gotten, it’s a much more doable project in the short term,” DiCarlo said. Krustch said the footprint of the amphitheatre was scaled back “to provide greater flexibility in the use of the site.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The almost three-acre space will include a festival plaza, a plaza centrepiece and parking for food trucks. The proposed Duffy’s Marina redevelopment. Photo by Courtesy of Town of Amherstburg /Windsor Star “This will likely be a multi-stage project,” DiCarlo said. “We don’t want to go to the bank and borrow millions of dollars when we can do it in stages.” The entire project could carry a price tag of $8 million. If broken down, shoreline improvements would cost approximately $500,000, the plaza site would take between $2.5 to $3 million and the marina would also cost between $2.5 to $3 million. The cost could go higher depending on final design changes. Krustch said the wharf can accommodate docking for tall ships but there’s an appetite for facilities that could handle a Great Lakes cruise ship. Once an environmental assessment is complete, administration hopes to bring the project to council for consideration in the 2019 budget. “Our goal is to move forward with the project in 2019,” said John Miceli, Amherstburg’s Chief Administrative Officer. The town bought the closed tavern and motor inn for $1.7 million in 2016. The old tavern and inn were demolished in 2017. mcaton@postmedia.com twitter.com/winstarcaton Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Latest concept drawings for Duffy's waterfront site Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK