Local group donates gift baskets to Hiatus House | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Local Basketeers group donates gift baskets to Hiatus House Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Local Basketeers group donates gift baskets to Hiatus House Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Local Basketeers group donates gift baskets to Hiatus House Author of the article: Mary Caton Publishing date: Nov 27, 2021 • 1 day ago • 1 minute read • Join the conversation Mary-Ann Stark, left, coordinator with the Windsor Basketeers, receives a donated basket from Erika Dorion at the Children's Safety Village in Windsor on Saturday, Nov. 27, 2021. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content A local group of volunteers prepared and decorated a number of gift baskets that were donated Saturday to Hiatus House. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content This marks the third year the Windsor Basketeers have carefully crafted together essential personal and household items for the shelter’s female victims of abuse who are transitioning to their own independent homes. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Local Basketeers group donates gift baskets to Hiatus House Back to video Windsor Basketeers are a local chapter of the international organization, whose mission is to provide some of “the simple necessities and niceties of life.” The Windsor group anticipated donating 30 baskets thanks to the generosity of local donors. Despite ongoing pandemic restrictions, the group raised $2,200 towards the project. The donation was made at The Safety Village and served as a reminder that November is Woman Abuse Prevention Month. mcaton@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Local Basketeers group donates gift baskets to Hiatus House Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Related Stories Commercial vehicle alcohol screening blitz results in zero charges None of the 300-plus commercial drivers screened for alcohol consumption during an Essex County OPP blitz last week were under the influence, police said. 6 days, 4 hours ago Local News Six more hanged bodies found in violence-plagued Mexican state 4 days, 10 hours ago World Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths 11 hours ago Local News LaSalle police warn businesses of suspect with counterfeit U.S. cash Reports of a man with a fistful of counterfeit American cash who recently tried to purchase takeout with a fake bill has prompted a warning from LaSalle police. 2 days ago Local News Leamington OPP seek owner of briefcase Leamington Ontario Provincial Police want to reunite a briefcase with its owner. 6 days, 4 hours ago Local News This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK