Man found seriously injured downtown dies, police investigate | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Man found seriously injured downtown dies, police investigate Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Man found seriously injured downtown dies, police investigate Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Man found seriously injured downtown dies, police investigate Author of the article: Taylor Campbell Publishing date: Oct 15, 2021 • October 15, 2021 • 1 minute read • Join the conversation Police officers with the accident reconstruction unit investigate at the intersection of Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West after a male was found with life-threatening injuries, on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Article content An elderly man found with life-threatening injuries downtown Friday morning has died. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Police believe the man may have been the victim of a hit and run in the area of Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West. Officers arrived to the scene shortly after 7 a.m. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Man found seriously injured downtown dies, police investigate Back to video The man was transported to hospital with serious injuries. At around 3:25 p.m., police confirmed the man had died. Elliott Street West between Bruce Avenue and Janette Avenue, as well as part of Janette, were closed to traffic while police investigated until around 2 p.m. Police officers with the accident reconstruction unit investigate at the intersection of Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West after a male was found with life-threatening injuries, on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star A pair of shoes remained in the roadway at around 10:20 a.m., as did reusable grocery bags, a folding shopping cart, and two bell peppers that appeared to have fallen out. More On This Topic Windsor police seek arson suspect Two pedestrians suffer life-threatening injuries in Ouellette crash Driver injured in Lakeshore crash Police ask that anyone in the area with surveillance cameras check their footage for possible evidence. Call police at 519-255-6700 or Crime Stoppers at 519-258-8477 with information. Police officers with the accident reconstruction unit investigate at the intersection of Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West after a male was found with life-threatening injuries, on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Groceries are strewn across the road at the intersection of Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West where police officers with the accident reconstruction unit investigate after a male was found with life-threatening injuries, on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star tcampbell@postmedia.com twitter.com/wstarcampbell Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Man found seriously injured downtown dies, police investigate Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK