Mandatory vaccination coming for all Windsor police employees | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Mandatory vaccination coming for all Windsor police employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Mandatory vaccination coming for all Windsor police employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Mandatory vaccination coming for all Windsor police employees Author of the article: Chris Thompson • Windsor Star Publishing date: Oct 08, 2021 • October 8, 2021 • 3 minute read • 72 Comments All Windsor police employees will have until Nov. 26 to prove they are double-vaccinated or be put on unpaid leave. Shown here on Friday, April 23, 2021, are the downtown police headquarters. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content The Windsor Police Services Board adopted a zero-tolerance COVID-19 vaccination policy for all civilian and sworn Windsor police employees during a special meeting on Friday. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Under the new policy officers and civilian staff will have until Nov. 26 to become fully vaccinated or provide a medically acceptable reason for exemption. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Mandatory vaccination coming for all Windsor police employees Back to video Police Services Board chair Mayor Drew Dilkens said Chief Pam Mizuno and administration needed time to fashion a policy that fit the force’s needs after the city adopted a corporate policy last month. “The City of Windsor approved a vaccination policy that requires all of our staff and contractors and others who work in the buildings to be fully vaccinated by Nov. 15, and if you’re an employee here and you’re not vaccinated by that date, you go on an unpaid leave of absence,” said Dilkens. “And so the WPS board, because of the legislation that covers some of the sworn officers, it took a little more time to develop a policy, get a legal opinion and go through all that back-end work. The board asked the chief to develop a policy and she came back with that policy today (Friday), the board considered it and approved it.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content But Windsor Police Association president Shawn McCurdy said he was caught off guard by Friday’s announcement. “A little bit of a surprise because of the discussions that we have been having with senior administration geared towards having a policy that would have the option of rapid testing, and that would be consistent with police services across Ontario such as Waterloo Region,” McCurdy said. “Obviously, we’re a little disappointed with the timing of this, being the Friday before a long weekend.” I think people will have to think long and hard about what they want to do Dilkens said that 92 per cent of the Windsor police workforce of more than 650 have been fully vaccinated, with eight per cent, or around 50 individuals, still to get the jab. “I think they would have preferred to have a ‘vax or test’ policy but that has largely proven to be ineffective,” Dilkens said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “A test can be given at one time and be negative and an hour later be positive. From a workplace perspective we want to make sure that everyone who calls for police service knows that the officers attending are fully vaccinated and as an employer are doing right by health and safety standards for our staff. “But we also wanted to make sure that we are not having two separate classifications of city employees. At the end of the day, police officers are city employees.” McCurdy said he had just received documentation about the policy Friday afternoon and was still working through it. “Our understanding was this would come back next week after the long weekend,” McCurdy said. “I’m a little disheartened and suspect at the timing of this. Although the number’s not large of unvaccinated members there’s enough that it will have an impact on service delivery.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content More On This Topic Mandatory vaccination policy for Windsor police officers to be discussed Windsor Regional Hospital confirms date — Sept. 22 — for mandated vaccinations City holding special meeting Thursday to address mandatory vaccinations for staff Dilkens said the bottom line is that for the pandemic to end, more people need to get the vaccine. “All of us want to get through this pandemic and the way to get through it is to be fully vaccinated,” Dilkens said. “You have about 10 per cent of the population that are steadfast against this, but you see what happened at the hospital when the threat of firing came into play you end up with less than two per cent unvaccinated. “We’re not going to fire people, but you know you’re not going to get paid. “And I think people will have to think long and hard about what they want to do.” chthompson@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Mandatory vaccination coming for all Windsor police employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK