Mandatory vaccination policy for Windsor police to be discussed | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Mandatory vaccination policy for Windsor police officers to be discussed Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Mandatory vaccination policy for Windsor police officers to be discussed Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Mandatory vaccination policy for Windsor police officers to be discussed Author of the article: Dalson Chen Publishing date: Sep 24, 2021 • September 24, 2021 • 2 minute read • Join the conversation Badge of a Windsor Police Service officer. Windsor Star Article content Windsor police officers could soon be joining the ranks of public servants required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content At a meeting of the Windsor Police Services Board on Thursday, Mayor Drew Dilkens said the board has asked Chief Pam Mizuno to prepare a report on a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination policy for all WPS members. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Mandatory vaccination policy for Windsor police officers to be discussed Back to video “We intend on having the meeting (on the policy) sometime in the early part of October,” Dilkens said. Mizuno is in the process of gathering data for the report, with a goal of submitting a policy to the board for approval. Potential details of the policy have yet to be disclosed. Last month, Toronto Police Service announced a mandatory vaccination policy for all its members — whether sworn officers or civilian employees — with proof of vaccination status required as of Sept. 13. A Toronto police officer prepares to enter a retirement residence in Yorkville in this June 2021 file photo. Photo by Peter J. Thompson /National Post However, the Toronto Police Association publicly stated that it is against the policy, and the issue remains under debate for many other police services. OPP, for example, currently do not have a vaccination requirement in place. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content In August, the Ontario Association of Chiefs of Police wrote to the Ministry of the Solicitor General to ask for direction regarding mandatory vaccination policies among police services. The ministry has yet to provide a response. The OACP has gone on record that it “strongly encourages” all police personnel to be vaccinated against COVID-19. More On This Topic Windsor city council approves mandatory vaccination policy for municipal employees Vaccine mandate comes into force at Windsor Regional Hospital Proof-of-vaccination requirement comes to Windsor-Essex businesses Meanwhile, last week, Windsor city council approved a mandatory vaccination policy for municipal workers. The policy requires City of Windsor employees to have proof of full vaccination by Nov. 15 — or obtain a valid accommodation under human rights legislation. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Employees who choose to remain unvaccinated and don’t have a legitimate exemption will be placed on unpaid leave. The city’s policy also applies to contractors and volunteers. According to the City of Windsor’s human resources department, a survey of 1,200 municipal workers found 83 per cent are already fully vaccinated. Regarding the human rights accommodations, a report by city administration said they will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and may involve the accommodated employee being subject to regular COVID-19 testing. The Human Rights Code does not protect personal, philosophical, or political objections. Representatives of the Windsor Professional Firefighters Association, the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE), and the Civic Association of Non-Union Employees (CANUE) all asked council to consider a scheduled testing policy instead of a vaccination requirement. The Windsor Police Association has not made a statement regarding the board’s direction to Mizuno. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Mandatory vaccination policy for Windsor police officers to be discussed Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK