Mayor Aldo DiCarlo mans excavator to kickoff demolition of Duffy's | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Mayor Aldo DiCarlo mans excavator to begin demolition of Duffy's Tavern Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Mayor Aldo DiCarlo mans excavator to begin demolition of Duffy's Tavern Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Mayor Aldo DiCarlo mans excavator to begin demolition of Duffy's Tavern Mayor Aldo DiCarlo mans excavator to kickoff demolition of Duffy's Tavern Author of the article: Mary Caton Publishing date: Jun 07, 2017 • June 7, 2017 • 2 minute read The demolition of Duffy's Tavern in Amherstburg began on June 7, 2017. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star Article content Amherstburg Mayor Aldo DiCarlo was like a kid in a sandbox Wednesday playing with his trucks at some imaginary construction site. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “It’s like a giant toy,” DiCarlo yelled from the cab of a hydraulic excavator while taking a few ceremonial chunks of concrete and roofing out of Duffy’s Tavern and Motor Inn. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Mayor Aldo DiCarlo mans excavator to begin demolition of Duffy's Tavern Back to video Demolition day for the landmark buildings on the edge of Detroit River had arrived. The entire Dalhousie Street property was fenced off as a crew from Amherstburg’s Jones Group prepared to start clearing the two-acre site in earnest. Owner Terry Jones looked at DiCarlo’s handiwork on one corner of the motel where a metal awning lay crumpled among some concrete and roofing material. “He didn’t do a good job of separating,” Jones joked. “He needs some training.” The once-popular tavern closed in 2013 and the town purchased the property earlier this year. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “This to me is like a rebirth,” DiCarlo said. “Out with the old and in with the new. Not to diminish what Duffy’s meant, it was a landmark and it’s sad to see it go but all things considered, some things need to change.” The demolition of Duffy’s Tavern in Amherstburg began on June 7, 2017. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star Mayor Aldo DiCarlo seems pretty happy lending a helping hand to take down Duffy’s Tavern in Amherstburg on June 7, 2017. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star The demolition of Duffy’s Tavern in Amherstburg began on June 7, 2017. Photo by Nick Brancaccio /Windsor Star CAO John Miceli said the timetable for clearing and grading the site is 11 weeks, if not sooner, with the specific goal of having it ready to host events related to the Canuck It Up Festival Aug. 5-6. “The whole demolition schedule was set up around that event,” Miceli said. Miceli looked north down the sidewalk on Dalhousie, envisioning an expansive waterfront view. “Once you open up the waterfront there’ll be a lot of development opportunities around here,” he said. “Look at the amount of frontage, you’ll be able to look down Gore Street and see this all wide open. It’s going to be amazing.” Initial concept drawings for the space featured a marina, boat launch, fishing wharf and amphitheatre. The public’s first opportunity to share its vision for the civic space comes on June 15. A consultation session on both the Waterfront Property — as it’s referred to in town notices — and the Belle Vue House is slated for the Libro Centre on Meloche Road. Those wishing to discuss the waterfront property can meet with administration and project consultants from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Those wishing to discuss the Belle Vue House can do so from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. mcaton@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Mayor Aldo DiCarlo mans excavator to begin demolition of Duffy's Tavern Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK