Medical personnel with U.S. military to help with virus fight in Michigan | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Medical personnel with U.S. military to help with virus fight in Michigan Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Medical personnel with U.S. military to help with virus fight in Michigan Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Medical personnel with U.S. military to help with virus fight in Michigan Author of the article: Dave Battagello Publishing date: Nov 25, 2021 • 3 days ago • 2 minute read • Join the conversation The United States Customs booth at the tunnel in Detroit, Michigan are shown on Monday morning on November 8, 2021. The land border opened for the first time in over 18 months. There were few cars lined up to enter the U.S. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content With COVID-19 cases seemingly raging out of control in Michigan and several hospitals struggling to keep up, the U.S. military is sending in medical personnel to help out. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Our hospitals are really at a point in time where their capacity and their ability to care for their community is challenged and with those increases it’s very concerning about the ability for people to go into a hospital and get the care that they need,” said Michigan Department of Health and Human Services Director Elizabeth Hertel in a statement. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Medical personnel with U.S. military to help with virus fight in Michigan Back to video WDIV-TV in Detroit reported 44 registered nurses, doctors and respiratory therapists with the U.S. Department of Defense are being deployed at two hospitals — Beaumont Hospital in Dearborn and Spectrum Health in Grand Rapids. “We have been working with the federal government and hospitals across the state to do the evaluations and these were the first two that were prioritized, but we continue to do evaluations of other hospitals across the state as well,” said Hertel, according to WDIV. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The state’s health department reported as of Wednesday there was 17,003 new virus cases over the previous two-day period across Michigan. There are nearly 4,000 people hospitalized due to COVID-19, about 150 below the highest number to date in the state which occurred during the previous wave in April. Approximately 73 per cent of all cases across Michigan in the last month have been among residents who are not fully vaccinated, the state’s health department said. Roughly 72 per cent of hospitalizations and 76 per cent of deaths have been among those who are not fully vaccinated. Beaumont Hospital will receive 22 medical staff starting next week, WDIV said. The additional staff will stay for 30 days and could be extended, if needed. “Currently, we know many hospitals across the state are having challenges with being able to serve individuals coming into their doors,” Hertel said. “Some are temporarily having to close their ERs because they don’t have the ability to care for patients in a timely fashion. So this (additional staff) will absolutely help make sure that they can care for those who are coming in.” dbattagello@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Medical personnel with U.S. military to help with virus fight in Michigan Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK