New COVID variant Omicron triggers global alarm, market sell-off | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: New COVID variant Omicron triggers global alarm, market sell-off Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: New COVID variant Omicron triggers global alarm, market sell-off Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Business New COVID variant Omicron triggers global alarm, market sell-off Author of the article: Reuters David Shepardson and Stephanie Nebehay Publishing date: Nov 26, 2021 • 1 day ago • 4 minute read • Join the conversation A passenger in a taxi wears a face mask with colours of the South African flag after the announcement of a British ban on flights from South Africa because of the detection of a new coronavirus disease (COVID-19) variant, in Soweto, South Africa, November 26, 2021. Photo by SIPHIWE SIBEKO /REUTERS Article content WASHINGTON/GENEVA — The discovery of a new coronavirus variant named Omicron triggered global alarm on Friday as countries rushed to suspend travel from southern Africa and stock markets on both sides of the Atlantic suffered their biggest falls in more than a year. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The World Health Organisation (WHO) said Omicron https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/what-we-know-about-covid-19-variant-detected-south-africa-2021-11-26 may spread more quickly than other forms, and preliminary evidence suggested there is an increased risk of reinfection. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. New COVID variant Omicron triggers global alarm, market sell-off Back to video Epidemiologists warned travel curbs may be too late to stop Omicron from circulating globally. The new mutations were first discovered in South Africa and have since been detected in Belgium, Botswana, Israel and Hong Kong. The United States https://www.reuters.com/world/us/us-impose-travel-curbs-eight-southern-african-countries-over-new-covid-19-2021-11-26 will restrict travel from South Africa and neighboring countries effective Monday, a senior Biden administration official said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Going further, Canada https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/canada-closing-borders-citizens-seven-southern-african-nations-over-covid-19-2021-11-26 said it was closing its borders to those countries, following bans on flights announced by Britain https://www.reuters.com/world/uk/britain-says-new-covid-19-variant-is-most-significant-yet-found-2021-11-26, the European Union https://www.reuters.com/world/africa/eu-moves-halt-air-travel-places-with-new-covid-variant-2021-11-26 and others. But it could take weeks for scientists to fully understand the variant’s mutations and whether existing vaccines and treatments are effective against it. Omicron is the fifth variant of concern https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/who-meeting-friday-designate-new-variant-b11529-2021-11-26 designated by the WHO. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The variant has a spike protein that is dramatically different than the one in the original coronavirus that vaccines are based on, the UK Health Security Agency said, raising fears about how current vaccines will fare. Scientists issued similar warnings. “This new variant of the COVID-19 virus is very worrying. It is the most heavily mutated version of the virus we have seen to date,” said Lawrence Young, a virologist at Britain’s University of Warwick. “Some of the mutations that are similar to changes we’ve seen in other variants of concern are associated with enhanced transmissibility and with partial resistance to immunity induced by vaccination or natural infection.” Those worries pummeled financial markets, especially stocks of airlines and others in the travel sector, and oil, which tumbled by about $10 a barrel. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 2.5%, its worst day since late October 2020, and European stocks had their worst day in 17 months. Cruise operators Carnival Corp, Royal Caribbean Cruises and Norwegian Cruise Line plunged more than 10% each, while shares in United Airlines, Delta Air Lines and American Airlines slumped almost as much. ‘MOST SIGNIFICANT VARIANT’ Several other countries including India, Japan, Israel, Turkey, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates also toughened travel curbs. In Geneva the WHO – whose experts on Friday discussed the risks presented by the variant, called B.1.1.529 – had earlier warned against travel curbs for now. “It’s really important that there are no knee-jerk responses,” said the WHO’s emergencies director Mike Ryan, praising South Africa’s public health institutions for picking up the new variant of the coronavirus that causes COVID-19. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Richard Lessells, a South Africa-based infectious disease expert, also expressed frustration at travel bans, saying the focus should be on getting more people vaccinated in places that have struggled to access sufficient shots. “This is why we talked about the risk of vaccine apartheid. This virus can evolve in the absence of adequate levels of vaccination,” he told Reuters. Less than 7% of people in low-income countries https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/activists-urge-biden-push-intellectual-property-waiver-covid-19-vaccines-2021-11-22 have received their first COVID-19 shot, according to medical and human rights groups. Meanwhile, many developed nations are giving third-dose boosters. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Failure to help vaccinate sub-Saharan Africa – still barely 4% of the population – left us all exposed to risk of a new, more virulent #COVID variant,” IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva wrote on Twitter. “News of #Omricon is an urgent reminder of why we need to do even more to vaccinate the world.” TOO LATE FOR TRAVEL CURBS? The coronavirus has swept the world in the two years since it was first identified in central China, infecting 260 million people and killing 5.4 million https://tmsnrt.rs/34pvUyi. One epidemiologist in Hong Kong said it may be too late to tighten travel curbs against the latest variant. “Most likely this virus is already in other places. And so if we shut the door now, it’s going to be probably too late,” said Ben Cowling of the University of Hong Kong. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Discovery of the new variant comes as Europe and the United States enter winter, with more people gathering indoors in the run-up to Christmas, providing a breeding ground for infection. Friday also marked the start of the holiday shopping period https://www.reuters.com/markets/europe/fearing-empty-shelves-black-friday-early-birds-head-us-stores-2021-11-26 in the United States, but stores were less crowded than in years past. Realtor Kelsey Hupp, 36, was at the Macy’s department store in downtown Chicago on Black Friday. “Chicago is pretty safe and masked and vaccinated. I got my booster so I’m not too concerned about it,” she said. Eikon users can click https://apac1.apps.cp.thomsonreuters.com/cms/?navid=1063154666 for a COVID case tracker. (Reporting by bureaux across the world; Writing by Nick Macfie, Alex Richardson and Lisa Shumaker; Editing by John Stonestreet, Toby Chopra, Cynthia Osterman and Daniel Wallis) Share this article in your social network Share this Story: New COVID variant Omicron triggers global alarm, market sell-off Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK