Ontario reports 613 new COVID-19 cases | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Ontario reports 613 new COVID-19 cases Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Ontario reports 613 new COVID-19 cases Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Ontario reports 613 new COVID-19 cases Tens of thousands of vaccine appointments have been booked for kids aged five to 11 Author of the article: Canadian Press Publishing date: Nov 23, 2021 • 4 days ago • 3 minute read • Join the conversation Ontario Health Minister Christine Elliott (centre) trades places at the podium with Dr Kieran Moore (left), Ontario's Chief Medical Officer of Health, at a news conference held in a Toronto pharmacy on Thursday, November 18, 2021. Photo by Chris Young /THE CANADIAN PRESS Article content Ten young kids rolled up their sleeves in Toronto to become the first to receive child-sized doses of COVID-19 vaccines in Ontario Tuesday, hours after families across the province went online to book long-awaited shots for children aged five to 11. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The first jabs went into little arms late in the afternoon after some pediatric Pfizer-BioNTech shots arrived early at a vaccine clinic. The City of Toronto said children connected with SickKids Hospital were offered the first shots. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Ontario reports 613 new COVID-19 cases Back to video Health Minister Christine Elliott, who was on site, thanked the “very brave” children for doing their part to end the pandemic. “They really, truly were superheroes, coming forward to receive the vaccination,” she said. “They’re protecting not only themselves, but their friends and their grandparents and parents and their community.” Stickers and applause were handed out after the kids got their needles. The city said a small number of clinics would vaccinate children on Wednesday, before appointments for many more in the young cohort pick up Thursday. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The province said more than 87,500 vaccine appointments for young kids had been booked using its portal as of 5 p.m. Tuesday. That didn’t include bookings through individual health units, pharmacies and primary care sites offering the shots. The provincial booking system officially opened for child appointments at 8 a.m., though some parents reported they were able to sign on slightly earlier. Toronto mom Kate Southwell said she managed to get in by 7 a.m., with a shot booked for her five-year-old son for Thursday afternoon. Southwell said the appointment is a relief for her family members, who’ve been sticking within their small bubble while waiting for pediatric vaccines. “He’s really excited to hug his friends and teachers again,” she said of her son Scott, who is eager to get immunized despite some nervousness about needles. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “He’d really hoped that the kids vaccine would be a lollipop instead of the needle,” she said. “But we just got his flu shot several weeks ago and took a video of him right afterwards saying that it didn’t hurt at all, so we’ve just been playing that video for him over and over again.” The Opposition New Democrats raised concerns in the legislature about parents who were unable to make appointments for more than one child at the same date, time or location. Legislator Catherine Fife also criticized the Progressive Conservative government for not allowing parents to pre-register their children for appointments, as other provinces had done before Health Canada approved the shots. “This chaos could have been avoided. There shouldn’t be more roadblocks for families. They’ve already been through enough,” Fife said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Elliott responded by defending why the province didn’t allow pre-booking, saying it was unclear when the vaccines would be approved. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. She said parents can get around issues booking appointments for more than one child by calling the phone line for the booking system. Elliott also said parents with questions about COVID-19 vaccines for kids can call a provincial contact centre to get more information, or access a consultation service offered by SickKids hospital over the phone. Parents or decision makers for children will usually have to provide consent at their child’s vaccine appointments or fill out a paper consent form, which the province has said will be available online or at clinics. The National Advisory Committee on Immunization recommends children receive the COVID-19 vaccine at least 14 days before or after another vaccine like a flu shot to better monitor for side effects. A spokeswoman for the health minister said Ontario is following that guidance, but people who want to receive two different vaccines within the 14-day window “may do so with informed consent.” Ontario reported 613 new COVID-19 cases and nine deaths from the virus on Tuesday. Elliott said 318 of the infected people are not fully vaccinated. She says 29 people have an unknown vaccination status. There are 134 people in intensive care due to COVID-19, including 68 people on ventilators. As of Monday, seven COVID-19 patients from Saskatchewan were in Ontario hospital intensive care units. The province says 86 per cent of residents aged 12 and older have received two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine and 89 per cent have at least one shot. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Ontario reports 613 new COVID-19 cases Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK