Police escort several Amherstburg senior managers out of town hall | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Amherstburg lawyer takes CAO post after staff ejected Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Amherstburg lawyer takes CAO post after staff ejected Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Amherstburg lawyer takes CAO post after staff ejected Author of the article: Trevor Wilhelm Publishing date: Aug 11, 2021 • August 11, 2021 • 3 minute read • 5 Comments Amherstburg CAO John Miceli is seen in council chambers April 2, 2019. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor Article content Amherstburg’s lawyer took over the duties of CAO John Miceli this week after several senior managers were told to leave town hall in the presence of Windsor police. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Mayor Aldo DiCarlo confirmed Wednesday that three employees were removed from town property on Monday. He would not confirm their names or why they were shown the door, but said town lawyer Susan Hirota has been “temporarily assigned” Miceli’s work. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Amherstburg lawyer takes CAO post after staff ejected Back to video DiCarlo also dismissed rumours that have been swirling on social media about people being fired or arrested. “Nobody’s been arrested,” he told the Star. “I’ve been starting to get messages like that — people taken away in handcuffs. That’s not true. Nothing like that is true.” Miceli didn’t return a call to his office on Wednesday, and his last known cellphone number was out of service. DiCarlo would not give any hint of what prompted the town to call police and have three employees removed from the property. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Windsor police also had little to say about the situation. “We can confirm our presence at Amherstburg Town Hall, but any further inquiries regarding Amherstburg municipal employees should be directed to the town,” Const. Darius Goze said in an email. Despite stressing that no one was fired and stating Hirota has taken over the CAO’s duties, DiCarlo said human resource rules prevent him from confirming if anyone has been suspended. “Unfortunately that gets into employment issues and we can’t discuss employment issues in the media or public,” said DiCarlo. He also wouldn’t confirm or deny reports that some property including electronics was seized. “Again, that would be like human resources stuff,” said DiCarlo. “I can’t discuss it.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Earlier Wednesday afternoon, DiCarlo issued a cryptic media release stating the town was dealing with some “issues.” “As most people are aware, the Police Service attended some Town properties on Monday,” he said in the media release. “I want to be very clear that their attendance had nothing to do with any criminal activities on the part of any Town employees. Any affected staff remain employed with the Town. We are presently doing our due diligence in reviewing some issues that were brought to our attention. The Town continues all operations under the leadership of Susan Hirota, in-house legal counsel for the Town, who has been temporarily assigned the CAO’s duties. The remaining management team is assisting with any other duties as needed with council’s full support.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content DiCarlo told the Star that the cancellation of Monday’s council meeting was a coincidence and unrelated to the turmoil. “There were some report issues in the agenda,” he said. “It wasn’t a huge agenda. But unfortunately, one or two of the more important ones actually had some last minute questions that came up. Without being able to deal with that that night, we just felt like there wasn’t a point to have a meeting that night.” This is not the first controversy for Miceli, who became Amherstburg’s CAO in 2014 after leaving his job as the City of Windsor’s executive director of parks and facility operations. More On This Topic Improving Amherstburg continues to carry above-average financial risk Amherstburg hires new CAO to lead town out of financial woes Amherstburg treasurer resigns Last year, Miceli launched a lawsuit in small claims court against online critic David Wharram for calling him a criminal on Facebook over the town’s COVID-19 response. In 2018, Miceli filed a lawsuit seeking $90,000 in damages after former Amherstburg mayoral candidate Glenn Swinton suggested the CAO had been involved in a fraud when he worked for the City of Windsor. twilhelm@postmedia.com Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Amherstburg lawyer takes CAO post after staff ejected Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK