Pot activist Lucier slapped with $4K fine | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Pot activist Lucier slapped with $4K fine Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Pot activist Lucier slapped with $4K fine Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Pot activist Lucier slapped with $4K fine Author of the article: Doug Schmidt Publishing date: Nov 27, 2021 • 1 day ago • 3 minute read In this 2018 file photo, Leo Lucier, owner of Compassion House, holds a container full of rolled marijuana joints. Barred from selling pot, the local pot activist was giving it away in exchange for charitable donations. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Article content A Windsor pot activist reacted with relief when a judge slapped him with a $4,000 fine Friday, ending a lengthy legal ordeal after police raided his Compassion House business three years ago. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “I’m happy — this brings closure. The judge was pretty fair,” Leo Lucier told the Star after Ontario Court Justice Mark Hornblower delivered his verdict on sentencing. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Pot activist Lucier slapped with $4K fine Back to video The Crown asked the judge to impose a $20,000 fine, but Lucier said part of the reason for the length of time it took for the case to conclude was the prosecution’s initial insistence that he be jailed for operating an illegal retail cannabis store. Lucier and a group of Compassion House employees were the first in Windsor to be charged under the Cannabis Act, a new federal law enacted on Oct. 17, 2018, when Canada legalized pot for adult recreational use. Windsor Police Service undercover officers soon attended Compassion House, operating openly in a Windsor storefront on Tecumseh Road west of Ouellette Avenue, and twin raids followed on Nov. 2 and 5. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Leo Lucier, owner of Compassion House, speaks as a delegate on the issue of opting in or opting out on cannabis retail stores at Windsor city council meeting, Monday, January 21, 2019. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star In his ruling, Hornblower said some consumers at the time felt implementation of new regulations to govern the production and sales of cannabis was “slow, flawed and confusing. In the midst of that confusion came Mr. Lucier and Compassion House.” The judge took into consideration such mitigating factors as Lucier’s community involvement, including using his business to raise funds and goods for the less fortunate, but he emphasized that both that and the “perceived flaws” in how Canada’s new cannabis regulations were being rolled out were “irrelevant” to the case before the court. Hornblower said Lucier’s Compassion House operation “was at all times illegal.” Lucier, 51, pleaded guilty to the Cannabis Act charge in August, following which the Crown asked the judge to withdraw all charges against the co-accused. Hornblower agreed to that request on Friday. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The judge questioned the necessity of police conducting an undercover operation given that Compassion House was doing its business openly. He also disagreed with the prosecution’s contention that employees were put at risk given the illicit nature of Compassion House’s enterprise. While its operation “clearly was illegal,” he said it wasn’t conducted in secret but via a “highly visible” storefront location. Windsor pot activist and medical marijuana licence holder Leo Lucier is shown Sept. 19, 2018, in the backyard of a friend’s Amherstburg home with large cannabis plants. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Lucier, who had a prior criminal record related to cannabis which the judge described as “dated,” was also handed a lifetime suspension from owning firearms or other weapons. The judge agreed to a forfeiture order for more than $39,000 in cash and cannabis products seized by police in the Compassion House raids. But he also ruled separately for the return of $3,073.10 in cash, which the defence had argued were the proceeds, contained in an envelope, of a fundraising effort meant to cover the funeral costs for a Compassion House volunteer who had been killed by his brother in 2018. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Defence lawyer Elizabeth Craig said that money will now be forwarded to the family of the deceased. More On This Topic Windsor cops lay first Cannabis Act charges after city raid, five arrests Crime boss or champion of the poor? Pot activist awaits sentencing Windsor pot activist bows out of legal fight after 3-year battle “We felt the judge gave a very, very well-reasoned decision — it was a great sentence,” Craig told the Star. The $4,000 fine, she said, was $1,000 less than what the defence had earlier offered the Crown for a guilty plea and to avoid court time. “They wanted jail,” she said. Lucier, a long-time pot activist, said he’s disappointed that cannabis can’t be used “as a tool to wipe out hunger.” He doesn’t expect to “retire” from pot activism, but said he’ll now “stay within the parameters of the law.” dschmidt@postmedia.com twitter.com/schmidtcity Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Pot activist Lucier slapped with $4K fine Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK