Report indicates Amherstburg remains on road to financial recovery | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Improving Amherstburg continues to carry above-average financial risk Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Improving Amherstburg continues to carry above-average financial risk Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Improving Amherstburg continues to carry above-average financial risk Author of the article: Julie Kotsis • Windsor Star Publishing date: Jan 26, 2021 • January 26, 2021 • 3 minute read • Join the conversation A sign at the edge of Amherstburg is shown on Monday, January 25, 2021. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content Seven years after Amherstburg was in serious financial difficulties, signs of improvement are showing but the town continues to carry risk well above comparable municipalities. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Housing’s annual financial indicator review, a barometer of changing fiscal circumstances, describes an improving picture when it comes to the town’s financial health but also highlights the need for more work to be done, said treasurer Justin Rousseau. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Improving Amherstburg continues to carry above-average financial risk Back to video The review, based on the town’s financial statements for 2019, includes seven indicators — five on sustainability and two regarding flexibility — and outlines levels of risk for each. The town has moderate risk for net debt and debt servicing costs as a percentage of total operating revenue but a low risk for all other categories, including reserves and cash levels, outstanding taxes, annual surplus versus deficit and depreciation on assets. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content We’re finally starting to get in line. The risk level for the town’s net debt — how much property tax and user fee revenue is servicing debt — was the last indicator to move to moderate risk from high risk. “(The net debt), that’s the moderate (risk) one. That was the last one that was in the high (risk) category,” Rousseau said. “That’s a pretty significant thing for us. “We’re finally starting to get in line. It’s still moderate and it’s still well beyond where comparable municipalities are averaging. But we’re still moving in the right direction.” Amherstburg Mayor Aldo DiCarlo speaks to reporters in this 2019 file photo. Photo by Taylor Campbell /Windsor In 2011, the town had only $200,000 in cash. At the start of 2014, when Mayor Aldo DiCarlo was first elected, the town’s cash balance was $2.2 million, with municipal long-term debt at $46 million, Rousseau said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content By the date of the current financial indicator report Dec. 31, 2019, the town’s cash balance was $25 million and the long-term debt was at $34 million — a $23-million improvement in cash flow and $12-million reduction in long-term debt. DiCarlo said as the dark financial cloud is slowly lifting, the good news is the town’s financial situation is better than it was. “Year over year as we address the budgets, what people seem to forget I think is we still have a long way to go,” DiCarlo said. “At the same time, you can’t really forget about everything else we need to do as a town.” The downtown Amherstburg fire station is shown on Monday, January 25, 2021. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star In his report, Rousseau said Amherstburg is in a net debt position, as the value of liabilities exceeds assets. And based on the town’s historical reliance on debt funding and the continued low level of reserves or reserve fund holdings, it continues to carry risk well above comparable municipalities. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Rousseau said “significant progress in enhancing reserve/reserve fund levels and pay-as-you-go funding are needed” to move the town toward a low risk level. As well, three of the low-risk categories — reserves, cash and asset consumption ratio — come with a caveat. From a technical and ministry viewpoint, the town is deemed to be a low risk in those categories but is still behind the comparators, which are southwestern Ontario municipalities of similar size. The Amherstburg Wastewater Treatment Plant is shown on Monday. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star For example, Amherstburg’s reserves, or money set aside for future needs, was at 32 per cent of operating expenses in 2019. Other comparable municipalities hold an average ratio of 75.8 per cent. “You don’t necessarily get a low rating and you don’t have work to do,” Rousseau said. “We’re still going down the path of building our reserves, lowering our debt and moving forward from more challenging times. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “We’ve made a lot of head road in where we were in 2014 but there’s certainly a lot that still remains to be done with regards to reserve planning, lifecycle spending and getting the town in optimal financial shape,” he said. “There’s still definitely a long ways to go with that but certainly the progress that’s been made since 2014, I’m very happy with the progress that we’ve made.” More On This Topic Amherstburg financial review includes 41 recommendations (With video) Amherstburg council finalizes 2021 budget with 2.03% tax hike DiCarlo said as the town focuses on its finances there’s also day-to-day operational business that must be addressed. “But we have to catch up from the past negligence, address what would have happened normally today anyway as things come up and then still plan for the future or this cycle will never end,” he said. “On a financial level, we’re getting there but we still have a way to go.” jkotsis@postmedia.com twitter.com/KotsisStar Richmond Street in downtown Amherstburg is shown on Monday, January 25, 2021. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Improving Amherstburg continues to carry above-average financial risk Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK