Son of elderly hit and run victim speaks out; police seek vehicle of interest | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Son of elderly hit and run victim speaks out; police seek vehicle of interest Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Son of elderly hit and run victim speaks out; police seek vehicle of interest Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Son of elderly hit and run victim speaks out; police seek vehicle of interest Author of the article: Taylor Campbell Publishing date: Oct 22, 2021 • October 22, 2021 • 3 minute read • Join the conversation The son of an elderly fatal hit and run victim consoles his mother during a Windsor police press conference at the Windsor Police Training Centre on Friday, Oct. 22, 2021. His father was struck and killed on Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Article content The son of an elderly man struck and killed by an SUV in downtown Windsor last week is begging the public for help finding the driver responsible. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Unable to hold back his tears, the son on Friday recounted the “nightmare” of knowing his father, who was in his early 80s, was left for dead in the roadway on Janette Avenue the morning of Oct. 15. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Son of elderly hit and run victim speaks out; police seek vehicle of interest Back to video “I lost a loved family member and the whole family is in deep sorrow,” said the man, who has requested police not share his identity or the identity of his father out of concern for privacy. “I hope anyone who knows anything, any information, please call and help us.” Call us, because we’re going to find you eventually The man and his mother, the victim’s widow, joined Windsor police outside Tilston Armouries Friday morning to share an update on the investigation, which so far has seen officers gather hundreds of hours of surveillance footage in search of possible evidence. Staff Sgt. Dave Tennent of the Windsor Police Service major crime unit said investigators have narrowed down their search to two vehicles of interest, though they believe a 2005 to 2009 black Chevrolet Equinox hit the victim. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Windsor police are asking for the public’s help identifying this 2005 to 2009 Chevrolet Equinox believed to have fatally struck an elderly man downtown on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Courtesy of Windsor police /Windsor Star Surveillance footage shows that the vehicle identified as an Equinox was the last to drive along the 700 block of Janette Avenue, a southbound one-way street, before another driver spotted the victim and stopped to call 911 at the road’s intersection with Elliott Street West. At around 7 a.m., first responders found the man with life-threatening injuries at the scene, as well a toppled hand cart, grocery bags, and some produce. The man was taken to hospital, where he was pronounced deceased. Surveillance footage gathered by police and submitted by area residents and businesses shows that, following the collision, the Equinox turned left onto Giles Boulevard, heading east. It then crossed Ouellette Avenue and continues eastbound into the Walkerville area. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “We have a member of our community who has lost their life, and we have to identify this driver,” Tennent said. “I want to reach out to anybody in the area that was driving a vehicle at that time to please call the police.” More On This Topic Man found seriously injured downtown dies, police investigate Chevrolet Equinox believed to have fatally struck elderly man downtown Police release photos of suspect vehicles in fatal hit and run Police are also “pleading” with the driver to come forward. “I believe in my heart that this was someone going to work, or coming home from work — I think someone panicked, and they left the scene, and they didn’t know what to do. “We’re just reaching out to that person. Call us, because we’re going to find you eventually.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Mechanics and those who deal with or sell automotive parts are asked to contact police or Crime Stoppers anonymously if they’ve done any work on a 2005 to 2009 Chevy Equinox since Oct. 15, or if they’ve been asked to order parts for one. Windsor police are asking for the public’s help identifying these two vehicles, which may have been involved in a fatal hit and run in the 700 block of Janette Avenue on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Courtesy of Windsor police /Windsor Star Police would also like to speak to the driver of a second vehicle of interest: a “black boxier-type SUV vehicle similar to a Jeep,” Tennent said. Surveillance footage shows that vehicle routinely moves through the involved area, travelling along Janette Avenue and turning west on Tecumseh Road, then south on South Pacific Avenue. Investigators believe the driver may have seen something that could assist with the investigation and they encourage that the driver contact police, too. Anyone with information is asked to call the Windsor police major crimes unit at 519-255-6700 ext. 4830, or ext. 4000 if calling after hours. Should you wish to remain anonymous, contact Crime Stoppers at 519-258-8477 (TIPS) or catchcrooks.com . tcampbell@postmedia.com twitter.com/wstarcampbell The son of an elderly fatal hit and run victim tears up while speaking about his father during a Windsor police press conference at the Windsor Police Training Centre on Friday, Oct. 22, 2021. His father was struck and killed on Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Staff Sgt. Dave Tennent speaks during a Windsor police press conference at the Windsor Police Training Centre on Friday, Oct. 22, 2021. Police are pleading with the driver of a fatal hit and run to come forward. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Staff Sgt. Dave Tennent speaks during a Windsor police press conference at the Windsor Police Training Centre on Friday, Oct. 22, 2021. Police are pleading with the driver of a fatal hit and run to come forward. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Son of elderly hit and run victim speaks out; police seek vehicle of interest Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK