Stellantis demanding workers be vaccinated by Dec. 17 | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Unifor grieving Stellantis's vaccine mandate policy Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Unifor grieving Stellantis's vaccine mandate policy Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links News Local News Unifor grieving Stellantis's vaccine mandate policy Author of the article: Dave Waddell Publishing date: Oct 27, 2021 • October 27, 2021 • 2 minute read • 15 Comments Workers at the Windsor Assembly Plant exit the plant after their day shift, Monday, Oct. 19, 2020. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Article content Unifor Local 444 will file a grievance against Stellantis’s introduction of mandatory vaccinations at its Windsor Assembly Plant. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Stellantis has set a Dec. 17 deadline for employees to get fully vaccinated or risk disciplinary measures that could include termination. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Unifor grieving Stellantis's vaccine mandate policy Back to video In a letter posted on Local 444’s Facebook page Tuesday, president Dave Cassidy informed his membership that the company has opted to forge ahead with its vaccination plans. “Our position is that Stellantis should follow other workplaces in the manufacturing setting that have vaccination policies that offer safe alternative options for those who choose not to be vaccinated,” Cassidy wrote. “These types of policies also don’t result in members being terminated or forced out on unpaid leave.” There are about 4,500 employees at the Windsor Assembly Plant. The policy will also be put in place at Stellantis’s operations in the Brampton area. In total, the company has about 10,000 employees in Canada. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Though the Local 444 is grieving the policy, Cassidy admitted employees face having to make a decision on vaccinations before the grievance will likely be heard. “The problem today is that the dates outlined in the company’s policy are coming fast, and so far, the company has been clear that they intend to move forward, ignoring the concerns we have raised with them,” said Cassidy, who added Unifor is urging all members to get vaccinated. “In the short term, our members are going to be forced to make extremely tough decisions. Our union will continue to push the company to change their policy or at least pause the roll out of this policy so we can have some sober conversation with them.” More On This Topic Windsor autoworkers protest new vaccine requirements Canadian auto companies implement mandatory vaccination policy for workers Unifor national president Jerry Dias has also urged members to get vaccinated. He added the union’s lawyers have reviewed Stellantis’s policy and admitted those defying the company’s wishes are risking losing their jobs. Dias said the 425 workers employed at Unifor’s national headquarters face the same policy and must be fully vaccinated to return to the office in November. dwaddell@postmedia.com twitter.com/winstarwaddell Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Unifor grieving Stellantis's vaccine mandate policy Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK