Unifor still seeking compromise solution | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Stellantis pushes vaccination deadline back to Dec. 31 Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Stellantis pushes vaccination deadline back to Dec. 31 Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links News Local News Stellantis pushes vaccination deadline back to Dec. 31 Author of the article: Dave Waddell Publishing date: Nov 26, 2021 • 2 days ago • 3 minute read • Join the conversation The Stellantis Windsor Assembly Plant is shown on Thursday, November 4, 2021. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content Stellantis will begin disciplining workers who have not reported their vaccination status December 1, but has agreed to delay implementation of its full vaccination mandate by another two weeks. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The deadline for the 4,500 workers at the Windsor Assembly Plant to be fully vaccinated has been moved from Dec. 17 to Dec. 31. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Stellantis pushes vaccination deadline back to Dec. 31 Back to video After the turn of the New Year, workers not fully vaccinated face possible dismissal. “Our Stellantis vaccine policy in Canada remains unchanged,” said Stellantis’s Head of Communications-Canada Lou Ann Gosselin. “However, to accommodate the review of requests for exemption on a case-by-case basis, we have extended the end date to December 31.” Gosselin said the company wasn’t commenting on what form any disciplinary action would take after the passing of the Dec. 1 or Dec. 31 deadlines. Workers head into the Ford Essex Engine Plant in Windsor on Thursday, April 15, 2021. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star The Ford Motor Company, which employs close to 1,700 workers in its two Windsor engine plants, and General Motors have similar vaccination mandates for their Canadian operations. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Unifor Local 444 President Dave Cassidy said the union doesn’t know how many of its members have reported their vaccination status or how many are already vaccinated. “The company hasn’t shared that with us yet, but I don’t think it (unvaccinated) is a very high number,” Cassidy said. “I think legally there’s some privacy issues. “The reality is I think they’re putting some pressure on people because people haven’t been declaring. They want to get a feel for it based on their declarations.” Cassidy emphasized the Dec. 1 deadline also applies to employees currently off work due to being on worker’s compensation, layoff etc. Stellantis’s agreement to push back the full implementation of its vaccine mandate eliminates a dilemma facing some retiring workers. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content There was some anxiety over the risks unvaccinated retiring workers might face after the Dec. 17 deadline. Dave Cassidy, who was just acclaimed as president of Unifor Local 444 for another three years, is pictured with his Chrysler Pacifica outside his home in Essex on Thursday, April 22, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star “It allows people to retire at the end of December without any anxieties around it,” Cassidy said. He said the union is still looking for a compromise solution, likely involving testing. Unifor also still has an active grievance pending against Stellantis over the vaccine mandate. The grievance is working its way through the internal process between Unifor and Stellantis. Once that is completed and if no settlement is reached, it’s another 30 days before the grievance can come before the Ontario Labour Relations Board. “I want to be clear, I’m vaccinated and I support vaccines, but not everyone does,” Cassidy said. “People should be able to have some type of choice, an alternative to the vaccine. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “When we’re dealing with people’s livelihoods, this is giving them an ultimatum not really a choice. “This is the most divisive issue (among members) I’ve seen in my entire tenure.” Cassidy wonders why Stellantis can’t follow the policies put in place by the Detroit 3 for their American workers. The three companies have yet to impose vaccination mandates and the reporting of vaccination status remains voluntary for its unionized workforce. Cassidy said the United Auto Workers don’t have any language in their contracts that have prevented the Detroit 3 from implementing vaccine mandates in the U.S. “It was reported last week in Michigan corona was at an all-time high,” said Cassidy of the irony of the higher U.S. infection numbers and more relaxed rules. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Why are they picking and choosing? Over there they don’t even have a policy. “You’d think they have one policy across the company.” More On This Topic Unifor grieving Stellantis's vaccine mandate policy Stellantis to require 14,000 U.S. workers to be fully vaccinated Canadian auto companies implement mandatory vaccination policy for workers Stellantis and Ford earlier this month mandated their non-unionized American employees must be fully vaccinated by early January. GM has not taken a public position on the issue. “This is consistent with the company’s country-specific approach since the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic,” Gosselin said. “Situational factors (positive case rates, government guidelines, vaccine access, etc.) have varied across the globe and influenced safety protocols and other actions aimed at protecting our employees. “However, Stellantis highly encourages all global employees to get vaccinated.” The United Auto Workers and the Detroit 3 automakers are also awaiting the fate of a U.S. Department of Labour order issued earlier this month requiring vaccinations or regularly testing for American firms with 100 or more employees by Jan. 4. That order is currently on hold after a federal court issued a stay, which has been appealed by the U.S. federal government. Dwaddell@postmedia.com Twitter.com/winstarwaddell Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Stellantis pushes vaccination deadline back to Dec. 31 Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK