U.S. Thanksgiving air travel set to be busiest since pandemic | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: U.S. Thanksgiving air travel set to be busiest since pandemic Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: U.S. Thanksgiving air travel set to be busiest since pandemic Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links World U.S. Thanksgiving air travel set to be busiest since pandemic Author of the article: Reuters Rajesh Kumar Singh Publishing date: Nov 24, 2021 • 4 days ago • 2 minute read • Join the conversation Passengers wait in line inside the terminal at Newark Liberty International Airport in Newark, New Jersey, Nov. 24, 2021. Photo by Eduardo Munoz /REUTERS Article content CHICAGO — Flights and airports across the United States are expected to have one of their busiest days since before the pandemic on Wednesday as millions of people fly to visit their families for the Thanksgiving holiday. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) expects to screen about 20 million air passengers during the Thanksgiving travel period, the most since 2019 when nearly 26 million Americans were on the move at that time, as rising COVID-19 vaccination rates have made people more confident about travel. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. U.S. Thanksgiving air travel set to be busiest since pandemic Back to video The travel demand is also getting a boost from consumers flush with savings as rising wages along with government stimulus have strengthened household balance sheets. On Tuesday, the TSA screened about 2.21 million U.S. air passengers, the sixth consecutive day with checkpoint volume topping 2 million. Los Angeles International Airport expects 2 million passengers. Victoria Spilabotte, the airport’s public information officer, said the numbers showed people were willing to travel again and added that passengers should arrive early to allow extra time for security. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The holiday weekend is a test for carriers after a spate of flight cancellations marred travel over the summer. One in five Americans are concerned about delays and cancellations, an American Pecans/YouGov survey found. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Carriers have ramped up staffing and offered bonuses and other incentives to employees. “We’re staffed and ready to get our customers to where they need to go safely, reliably and enjoyably,” a Delta Air Lines spokesperson said. Calm weather expected for Thanksgiving should also help to prevent disruption. Some passengers at the Los Angeles airport said the airport was not as busy as they expected. “So far, so good,” said Lani Emanuel, who is travelling to Seattle to see her daughter. “It was a little tricky finding parking, but it doesn’t seem too crazy busy just yet.” U.S. passenger railroad Amtrak is also expecting a jump in passenger volumes. A company spokesperson said some trains are already close to full capacity. Travel group AAA estimates, in all, 53.4 million people will travel for the Thanksgiving holiday, up 13% from 2020, with air travel recovering to about 91% of pre-pandemic levels. The biggest concern this holiday season is high fuel prices, the YouGov survey found. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: U.S. Thanksgiving air travel set to be busiest since pandemic Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK