Windsor cops lay first Cannabis Act charges after city raid, arrests | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Windsor cops lay first Cannabis Act charges after city raid, five arrests Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Windsor cops lay first Cannabis Act charges after city raid, five arrests Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Crime Windsor cops lay first Cannabis Act charges after city raid, five arrests Five people, including long-time Windsor pot activist Leo Lucier, are the first to be charged by the Windsor Police Service under the new federal Cannabis Act. Author of the article: Doug Schmidt • Windsor Star Publishing date: Nov 07, 2018 • November 7, 2018 • 4 minute read • Join the conversation Windsor Police attend Compassion House on Tecumseh Road West Wednesday morning. Photo by Staff photo /Windsor Star Article content Five people, including longtime Windsor pot activist Leo Lucier, are the first to be charged by the Windsor Police Service under the new federal Cannabis Act. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Four individuals were taken into custody Tuesday night following a raid by members of the department’s drugs and guns unit on the Compassion House, a cannabis-based business owned by Lucier. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Windsor cops lay first Cannabis Act charges after city raid, five arrests Back to video It’s a sad day today Lucier was on his way to the Stevie Wonder Song Party concert at Caesars Windsor when he received an alert on his smartphone of a police raid at his business, located at 405 Tecumseh Rd. W in a small West Windsor commercial plaza. He watched in real time as security cameras linked to his phone recorded officers, both uniformed and in plain clothes, carting off boxes of seized items, as well as escorting four occupants in handcuffs to an awaiting prisoner van. Before the start of the concert, Lucier said he called his lawyer: “He told me: ‘Enjoy your night.'” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Police said little at the time but acknowledged the four arrests and added there remained an outstanding warrant for an unnamed fifth person. Leo Lucier shows his identification at Windsor Police Headquarters while surrendering on Nov. 7, 2018. Photo by Staff photo /Windsor Star Lucier figured he was that fifth person. Wednesday morning, he announced to his Facebook followers that he would be turning himself in at police headquarters that afternoon. “It’s a sad day today,” Lucier told reporters as he surrendered himself at the front desk. “It’s a legal substance — how can it be illegal?” While recreational cannabis was legalized for adult use in Canada on Oct. 17, Ontario is only allowing online sales from a single government supplier until next spring. Const. Andy Drouillard said “illegal dispensaries” such as the Compassion House will be targeted by police based on complaints received from the public. He acknowledged the legislation is new and will change again in the spring, with the introduction of legal, privately owned bricks-and-mortar retail outlets, but “we do enforce the laws of the land … that stand at this time.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Lucier was defiant, vowing to open more such outlets in Windsor soon and to organize a public protest against this week’s raid. He thought it was unfair that he didn’t simply receive a warning to shut down his operation before police launched the raid. “If they had given me a warning, I would’ve shut down,” said Lucier. “I waited until legalization to open (the Compassion House) — if I’m breaking the law, somebody should tell me.” With the media in tow, Compassion House owner Leo Lucier on his way to Windsor Police headquarters to surrender Wednesday afternoon. Photo by Staff photo /Windsor Star But Drouillard said that “the public is well aware of what the rules are,” and that they’ve been well-publicized. One of those arrested — they describe themselves as volunteers, while police referred to them as employees — said it was around 5:30 p.m. when about nine officers entered: “‘This is the police! Put your hands up where we can see them. This is a raid.'” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Drouillard said quanities of drugs, money and “other drug paraphernalia” were seized. The five parties have each been charged with two counts — selling cannabis to an adult, and possession of cannabis for the purpose of selling. They were released on a promise to appear in court at a future date. Accompanying the federal Liberal government’s new legislation legalizing cannabis for adult recreational use — following decades of criminal prohibition — came tougher new penalties for wrongdoers. Depending on how the Crown proceeds, either summarily or by indictment, convictions on those two federal Cannabis Act charges can result in fines of up to $15,000 and/or jail terms of up to 18 months. Lucier said his Compassion House had registered more than 5,000 clients over the past three weeks, each of whom signed a document attesting to the medical benefits of cannabis before receiving a membership card. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content With the media in tow, Compassion House owner Leo Lucier on his way to Windsor Police headquarters to surrender Wednesday afternoon. Photo by Staff photo /Windsor Star He said the single-source Ontario Cannabis Store has made a mess of the start of cannabis legalization, with some online customers still waiting for orders made three weeks ago. On Wednesday came news of Canada Post admitting to a privacy breach involving thousands of Ontario’s online cannabis customers. Because of shortages in supply from licensed producers due to higher-than-expected demand, Lucier said his Compassion House was seeing medical cannabis users whose government-approved supply had dried up. Proceeds from sales, he said, were going towards food bank, mission and women’s shelter donations. When police raided the premises, one of those arrested said police asked about the stacked-up piles of canned foods and cereals, which Lucier said were food bank donations solicited from clients. He said there was also a Mothers Against Drunk Driving donation box on the counter. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “Something has to be done about poverty,” said Lucier, who estimates his pot activism over the past several years has resulted in over seven tonnes of food donations locally. He said pot was given free to veterans coping with PTSD and to those fighting cancer. More On This Topic 'A great day' — pot smokers celebrate end of prohibition Four-plant limit won't limit giant pot harvests, local grower shows On the eve of legalization, Canada's pot frontier goes 'wild, wild west' The stakes are high for those found guilty of operating an illegal cannabis dispensary. On the eve of legalization on Oct. 17, Ontario’s Ford government warned that anyone still operating an illegal storefront after that date would be forbidden from obtaining a retail operator’s licence once such private enterprises are expected to be given the green light next spring. Many illegal dispensaries, particularly in the Toronto area, subsequently shut down. With a criminal record for prior cannabis convictions, Lucier said it’s unlikely he’d be able to obtain such a retail licence in any event. A Windsor judge sentenced Lucier, 48, to 14 months in jail in 2005 after he was nabbed with more than three kilograms of marijuana he described as being for medical purposes. “The judge told me then, ‘Leo, once marijuana is legal, you’ll be able to sell it.'” dschmidt@postmedia.com twitter.com/schmidtcity Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Windsor cops lay first Cannabis Act charges after city raid, five arrests Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit Pot activist Lucier slapped with $4K fine This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK