Windsor man charged following fatal October crash | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Windsor man charged following fatal October crash Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Windsor man charged following fatal October crash Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Windsor man charged following fatal October crash Author of the article: Kathleen Saylors Publishing date: Nov 20, 2021 • November 20, 2021 • 2 minute read • Join the conversation Windsor Police Service Staff Sgt. Dave Tennent speaks at a press conference at the downtown headquarters on Friday, November 19, 2021 regarding charges in a recent fatal hit-and-run incident. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content A 57-year-old Windsor man has been arrested related to an alleged October hit-and-run crash that killed a Windsor senior, police said Friday afternoon. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Paul Roenspiess, 57, of Windsor was charged with failure to remain causing death related to the Oct. 15 crash that killed an 81-year-old Windsor father and grandfather, police said. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Windsor man charged following fatal October crash Back to video “An extensive police investigation took place and the major crime unit was put in charge of this investigation,” said Staff Sgt. Dave Tennent, announcing the arrest. “We worked with a number of other resources in our police service: our forensic identification, traffic enforcement and a number of other units in the police service, and together we were able to piece together this investigation. Roenspiess was arrested Nov. 5, though Windsor police announced the arrest Friday. Groceries are strewn across the road at the intersection of Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West where police officers with the accident reconstruction unit investigate after a male was found with life-threatening injuries, on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star The 81-year-old victim, who has not been named by police at the family’s request, was found laying in the road at Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West early in the morning of Oct. 15 surrounded by a toppled hand cart, grocery bags and produce. He was pronounced deceased in hospital. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content In announcing the arrest, Tennent read a statement from the victim’s family that thanked police and the public who helped in the investigation. “It has been a month since the tragedy happened,” the victim’s son said, in a statement read by Tennent. “Our family still cannot accept the fact we lost a beloved husband, father, and grandfather. We are still heartbroken every time, when we think about that moment. “Thanks to everyone who supported us during this difficult time. We appreciate the warm meals, flowers and phone calls. We will remember your kindness.” Tennent said in speaking with the family, he believes the arrest brought “tremendous closure.” Police officers with the accident reconstruction unit investigate at the intersection of Janette Avenue and Elliott Street West after a male was found with life-threatening injuries, on Friday, Oct. 15, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star “It was very difficult for them to believe someone would leave the scene … having a family member who was basically left for dead, rendering no assistance, didn’t call 911 nothing. It brought tremendous closure to the family.” Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Following the crash, police identified two vehicles based on surveillance images, eventually narrowing the search to one vehicle. Police said they located the involved vehicle, a black 2002 Ford Ranger pickup truck at an apartment building in the 100 block of Caron Avenue on Nov. 5. Police said investigators observed damage to the vehicle believed to have been caused by the crash. More On This Topic Son of elderly hit and run victim speaks out; police seek vehicle of interest Police rule out Chevy Equinox in fatal hit and run; Jeep-like vehicle sought Chevrolet Equinox believed to have fatally struck elderly man downtown Investigators determined the registered owner was also the driver at the time of the crash. The suspect was “cooperative with police” and arrested without incident, police said in a statement. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Tennant said it took three weeks for officers to piece together the investigation, describing it as having “a lot of ups and downs.” “We probably went to, I want to say 75 different places to get video so I want to thank all those people in our community that did provide us video surveillance,” Tennent said. He added that video provided by CP Rail police, located in the area, helped identify the suspect vehicle. “We watched hundreds of hours of video in attempts to locate this vehicle. Tedious, lots of man hours, lots of areas of the police service. Everyone pitched in, it was a good team effort.” ksaylors@postmedia.com Windsor Police Service Staff Sgt. Dave Tennent speaks at a press conference at the downtown headquarters on Friday, November 19, 2021 regarding charges in a recent fatal hit-and-run incident. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Windsor man charged following fatal October crash Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK