Windsor man charged with murder following crash investigation | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Windsor man charged with murder following crash investigation Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Windsor man charged with murder following crash investigation Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Windsor man charged with murder following crash investigation Author of the article: Kathleen Saylors Publishing date: Nov 19, 2021 • November 19, 2021 • 1 minute read • Join the conversation A Windsor officer speaks to a woman on Dougall Avenue between Chatham and University on Thursday, November 18, 2021 where an investigation was taking place. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Article content Windsor police have charged a 33-year-old with first-degree murder after investigating what was initially reported as a car crash early Thursday morning. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Police said Friday they responded to University Avenue West and Dougall Avenue around 4 a.m. Thursday for a report of a multi-vehicle crash. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Windsor man charged with murder following crash investigation Back to video The driver of one of the vehicles, identified as a 44-year-old man from Windsor, reportedly had multiple injuries and was transported to hospital where he was pronounced deceased. Police said investigation showed the victim was allegedly involved in an altercation prior to the crash. Police with the provincial Repeat Offenders Parole Enforcement (ROPE) squad arrested a 33-year-old male around 8 a.m. Friday morning. He is charged with first-degree murder, pointing a firearm, discharging a firearm with intent to wound and possessing a dangerous weapon. The individual has not been named by police. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Windsor officers are shown on Dougall Avenue between Chatham and University on Thursday, November 18, 2021 where an investigation was taking place. Photo by Dan Janisse /Windsor Star Police said the victim’s cause of death has not been determined pending an autopsy. The Windsor Police Service major crime unit is actively investigating and asks anyone with surveillance or dash cameras in the area of Wyandotte Street between Dougall Avenue and Moy Avenue to check the footage for Nov. 18 between 3:30 a.m. and 4:30 a.m. Police said they believe this was a targeted incident with no ongoing risk to public safety. Anyone with information can contact police at 519-255-6700 ext. 4830, or after hours at ext. 4000, Crime Stoppers anonymously at 519-258-8477 (TIPS) or online at catchcrooks.com. Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Windsor man charged with murder following crash investigation Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear Dutch: Some of the 61 COVID-19 cases from South Africa flights are new variant Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK