Windsor to mandate vaccination or COVID-19 testing for city employees | Windsor Star Skip to Content Ready. Set. Save! Get incredible Black Friday deals on Home Newspaper Delivery and Online subscriptions! Get Black Friday deals on print and online subscriptions! Subscribe now.&gt; Manage Print Subscription Sections Search Search windsorstar.com Perform search Windsor Star Share Share this Story: Windsor to mandate vaccination or twice weekly COVID-19 testing for city employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Subscribe Main Menu Search windsorstar.com Perform search News Local News COVID-19 National COVID-19 Election 2021 PostPandemic World Weather Podcasts Archives Contact the Newsroom Sports Local Sports Hockey NHL Windsor Spitfires Football NFL NCAA Football CFL Baseball Detroit Tigers Basketball NBA NCAA Windsor Express Golf Soccer International Soccer MLS Curling Tennis Auto Racing Fighting Opinion Editorials Columnists Letters Arts Celebrity Local Arts Movies Movie Listings Television TV Listings Music Books Business Automotive Technology Gaming Internet Personal Tech Science Space Tech-Biz Local Business Open during COVID Featured Businesses Energy FP Markets FP Headlines FP Money Small Business MoneyWise Canada Borrowing Money Future Money Growing Money Life Milestones Shopping Essentials Home Living Style &amp; Beauty Kitchen &amp; Dining Personal Care Entertainment &amp; Hobbies Gift Guide Fashion &amp; Beauty Parenting Relationships Homes Condos Decorating Gardening Renovating Vacation Homes Food Local Food Reviews Recipes From the Vault Health Healthing Diet &amp; Fitness Family &amp; Child Men Women Seniors Sexual Health Royals Travel Puzzles New York Times Crossword Comics Advice Horoscopes Contests National Contests Obituaries Browse Notices Place an Obituary Place an In Memoriam Classifieds Place an Ad Business Card Directory Celebrations Working Real Estate Showcase Real Estate E-Edition Shopping This Week's Flyers Auction Driving All Driving News Reviews Car Comparison Buyer’s Guide Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Subscribe Manage Print Subscription My Account Our Offers FAQ News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving Healthing The GrowthOp Newsletters ePaper Refer a Friend Advertisement This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Share this Story: Windsor to mandate vaccination or twice weekly COVID-19 testing for city employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Windsor to mandate vaccination or twice weekly COVID-19 testing for city employees Author of the article: Julie Kotsis Publishing date: Aug 23, 2021 • August 23, 2021 • 3 minute read • 25 Comments Gemma Fontanin, a nursing student at the University of Windsor, administers a COVID-19 vaccine at a pop-up vaccine clinic in downtown Windsor, on Tuesday, July 13, 2021. Photo by Dax Melmer /Windsor Star Article content The City of Windsor and the County of Essex are taking steps towards mandatory vaccinations against COVID-19. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Windsor will soon require all city employees to be vaccinated or to submit to bi-weekly testing. We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or tap here to see other videos from our team. Windsor to mandate vaccination or twice weekly COVID-19 testing for city employees Back to video With a unanimous vote during a special city council meeting Monday, city councillors directed administration to draw up a mandatory workplace vaccination policy for all City of Windsor employees. “In order to take a leadership role, we wanted to make sure that, from a city council perspective, that administration was preparing a policy,” said Mayor Drew Dilkens. “They’re going to have a policy back no later than September the seventh to city council and then council will decide whether that policy hits the mark and when the policy should be effective.” Dilkens said there is a responsibility as an employer to make sure employees are coming to work with the “best protection, which is being vaccinated or undertaking testing that shows that they are free of the virus before they come into the workplace. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content “This is really a workplace issue,” he said. “Because we have 2,500 employees and they’re distributed across many different worksites, it’s complex to track this type of information. “But we need to set the systems in place to do that, recognizing that we’re probably going to be dealing with different variants of COVID for the coming years.” In a statement Monday, the County of Essex said all of its staff must have at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine by Sept. 7, and must be fully vaccinated with two doses by Oct. 30. The policy applies to everyone employed by the County of Essex, including all who work with Essex-Windsor EMS and Sun Parlor Long-Term Care Home. As well, the policy applies to all contractors and visitors to County of Essex facilities. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Mike Galloway, County of Essex CAO, said the step is being taken for the health and safety of county employees and the community at large. “A fourth wave of COVID-19 fuelled by the Delta variant is at our doorstep, and vaccination is our most effective weapon against severe illness and death,” Galloway stated. “This is how we can save lives and reduce the pressure on our health-care system.” Exceptions to the policy will be made, but only for employees who have a medical exemption or “a bona fide religious objection under the Ontario Human Rights Code,” the County of Essex stated. In Windsor, some city employees — such as those at Transit Windsor and Windsor Airport — are federally regulated and already must comply based on federal rules, according to the mayor. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content Dilkens pointed out other municipalities, such as the City of Toronto, and some private employers have already developed mandatory vaccination policies. Windsor is looking to establish a framework, modelled on a provincial directive for Ontario Public Service employees, that will apply to city employees who fall under provincial jurisdiction. Agencies, boards and commissions — Dilkens said for example Enwin Utilities and the Windsor Police Service — will be asked to consider the same type of policy. “So this really just puts a little more pressure out there to say, if we’re all going to do this, let’s provide a framework that we all agree to … so that people in the workplace understand what the policy is and that it’s not too different from place to place,” he said. Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Article content The policy will also have to include what the repercussions are if someone refuses. “There are legal opinions that say employees could lose their job at the far end of the spectrum if they refuse to undertake this type of testing. That’s not where we want to go clearly,” Dilkens said. “What we want to do is just make sure we have sensible protocols in place, recognizing we’re still in the middle of a global pandemic. “As people come back to the workplace, I think it’s fair that we have policies in place that make sure that co-workers have comfort.” Dilkens said he believes the majority of city employees will be fully vaccinated when they return to work for those who don’t want to get vaccinated or have human rights exemptions or medical exemptions, “we are sensitive to that. “And the policy will spell out what that looks like moving forward,” he said. “But at the end of the day, we want to take a leadership role.” jkotsis@postmedia.com twitter.com/KotsisStar Share this article in your social network Share this Story: Windsor to mandate vaccination or twice weekly COVID-19 testing for city employees Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter Reddit Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Windsor Star Headline News Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Windsor Star Headline News will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again Trending Did WHO name new COVID variant Omicron to avoid upsetting China? Ontario records 854 new COVID-19 infections and two more deaths Guatemalan stowaway survives flight to Miami hidden in plane's landing gear 'Flash mob' thieves target U.S. retail stores on Black Friday Deferred development charges for a town employee, a missing report and now a possible audit This Week in Flyers Comments Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings. Categories News Sports Opinion Arts Business Life Driving E-Paper Subscribe Follow the Windsor Star Secondary Links Advertise With Us Digital Ad Registry Site Map Contact Privacy - Updated Terms of Use Copyright My Account 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 © 2021 Windsor Star, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved. Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited. Notice for the Postmedia Network This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic. Read more about cookies here. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. OK